The word of the Lord that came to Hosea, the son of Beeri, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel.
When the Lord first spoke through Hosea, the Lord said to Hosea, “Go, take to yourself a wife of whoredom and have children of whoredom, for the land commits great whoredom by forsaking the Lord.” 
So he went and took Gomer, the daughter of Diblaim, and she conceived and bore him a son.
And the Lord said to him, “Call his name Jezreel, for in just a little while I will punish the house of Jehu for the blood of Jezreel, and I will put an end to the kingdom of the house of Israel. 
And on that day I will break the bow of Israel in the Valley of Jezreel.”
She conceived again and bore a daughter. And the Lord said to him, “Call her name No Mercy, for I will no more have mercy on the house of Israel, to forgive them at all. 
But I will have mercy on the house of Judah, and I will save them by the Lord their God. I will not save them by bow or by sword or by war or by horses or by horsemen.”
When she had weaned No Mercy, she conceived and bore a son. 
And the Lord said, “Call his name Not My People, for you are not my people, and I am not your God.”
  Say to your brothers, “You are my people,” and to your sisters, “You have received mercy.”
“Plead with your mother, plead—
lest I strip her naked
 Upon her children also I will have no mercy,
For their mother has played the whore;
Therefore I will hedge up her way with thorns,
She shall pursue her lovers
And she did not know
Therefore I will take back
Now I will uncover her lewdness
 And I will put an end to all her mirth,
And I will lay waste her vines and her fig trees,
And I will punish her for the feast days of the Baals
“Therefore, behold, I will allure her,
And there I will give her her vineyards
“And in that day, declares the Lord, you will call me ‘My Husband,’ and no longer will you call me ‘My Baal.’ 
For I will remove the names of the Baals from her mouth, and they shall be remembered by name no more. 
And I will make for them a covenant on that day with the beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens, and the creeping things of the ground. And I will abolish the bow, the sword, and war from the land, and I will make you lie down in safety. 
And I will betroth you to me forever. I will betroth you to me in righteousness and in justice, in steadfast love and in mercy. 
I will betroth you to me in faithfulness. And you shall know the Lord.
“And in that day I will answer, declares the Lord,
and the earth shall answer the grain, the wine, and the oil,
and I will sow her for myself in the land.
Empty verse
Empty verse
And the Lord said to me, “Go again, love a woman who is loved by another man and is an adulteress, even as the Lord loves the children of Israel, though they turn to other gods and love cakes of raisins.” 
So I bought her for fifteen shekels of silver and a homer and a lethech of barley. 
And I said to her, “You must dwell as mine for many days. You shall not play the whore, or belong to another man; so will I also be to you.” 
For the children of Israel shall dwell many days without king or prince, without sacrifice or pillar, without ephod or household gods. 
Afterward the children of Israel shall return and seek the Lord their God, and David their king, and they shall come in fear to the Lord and to his goodness in the latter days.
 Hear the word of the Lord, O children of Israel,
 there is swearing, lying, murder, stealing, and committing adultery;
Therefore the land mourns,
 Yet let no one contend,
You shall stumble by day;
My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge;
 The more they increased,
 They feed on the sin of my people;
 And it shall be like people, like priest;
 They shall eat, but not be satisfied;
whoredom, wine, and new wine,
My people inquire of a piece of wood,
 They sacrifice on the tops of the mountains
I will not punish your daughters when they play the whore,
Though you play the whore, O Israel,
Like a stubborn heifer,
 Ephraim is joined to idols;
When their drink is gone, they give themselves to whoring;
 A wind has wrapped them in its wings,
 Hear this, O priests!
And the revolters have gone deep into slaughter,
 I know Ephraim,
 Their deeds do not permit them
 The pride of Israel testifies to his face;
 With their flocks and herds they shall go
 They have dealt faithlessly with the Lord;
 Blow the horn in Gibeah,
Ephraim shall become a desolation
The princes of Judah have become
Ephraim is oppressed, crushed in judgment,
But I am like a moth to Ephraim,
When Ephraim saw his sickness,
For I will be like a lion to Ephraim,
 I will return again to my place,
“Come, let us return to the Lord;
After two days he will revive us;
 Let us know; let us press on to know the Lord;
What shall I do with you, O Ephraim?
Therefore I have hewn them by the prophets;
For I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice,
But like Adam they transgressed the covenant;
 Gilead is a city of evildoers,
As robbers lie in wait for a man,
In the house of Israel I have seen a horrible thing;
For you also, O Judah, a harvest is appointed.
 when I would heal Israel,
But they do not consider
By their evil they make the king glad,
 They are all adulterers;
On the day of our king, the princes
For with hearts like an oven they approach their intrigue;
All of them are hot as an oven,
Ephraim mixes himself with the peoples;
 Strangers devour his strength,
 The pride of Israel testifies to his face;
Ephraim is like a dove,
As they go, I will spread over them my net;
 Woe to them, for they have strayed from me!
 They do not cry to me from the heart,
Although I trained and strengthened their arms,
They return, but not upward;
Set the trumpet to your lips!
To me they cry,
Israel has spurned the good;
 They made kings, but not through me.
 I have spurned your calf, O Samaria.
For it is from Israel;
For they sow the wind,
 Israel is swallowed up;
For they have gone up to Assyria,
Though they hire allies among the nations,
Because Ephraim has multiplied altars for sinning,
 Were I to write for him my laws by the ten thousands,
As for my sacrificial offerings,
For Israel has forgotten his Maker
Rejoice not, O Israel!
 Threshing floor and wine vat shall not feed them,
They shall not remain in the land of the Lord,
 They shall not pour drink offerings of wine to the Lord,
 What will you do on the day of the appointed festival,
For behold, they are going away from destruction;
 The days of punishment have come;
The prophet is the watchman of Ephraim with my God;
 They have deeply corrupted themselves
Like grapes in the wilderness,
Ephraim’s glory shall fly away like a bird—
 Even if they bring up children,
Ephraim, as I have seen, was like a young palm planted in a meadow;
Give them, O Lord—
Every evil of theirs is in Gilgal;
Ephraim is stricken;
 My God will reject them
 Israel is a luxuriant vine
Their heart is false;
For now they will say:
They utter mere words;
The inhabitants of Samaria tremble
 The thing itself shall be carried to Assyria
 Samaria’s king shall perish
The high places of Aven, the sin of Israel,
From the days of Gibeah, you have sinned, O Israel;
 When I please, I will discipline them,
Ephraim was a trained calf
 Sow for yourselves righteousness;
 You have plowed iniquity;
therefore the tumult of war shall arise among your people,
Thus it shall be done to you, O Bethel,
 When Israel was a child, I loved him,
 The more they were called,
Yet it was I who taught Ephraim to walk;
 I led them with cords of kindness,
 They shall not return to the land of Egypt,
 The sword shall rage against their cities,
My people are bent on turning away from me,
How can I give you up, O Ephraim?
I will not execute my burning anger;
 They shall go after the Lord;
they shall come trembling like birds from Egypt,
  Ephraim has surrounded me with lies,
Ephraim feeds on the wind
 The Lord has an indictment against Judah
 In the womb he took his brother by the heel,
He strove with the angel and prevailed;
the Lord, the God of hosts,
“So you, by the help of your God, return,
A merchant, in whose hands are false balances,
Ephraim has said, “Ah, but I am rich;
 I am the Lord your God
 I spoke to the prophets;
 If there is iniquity in Gilead,
 Jacob fled to the land of Aram;
By a prophet the Lord brought Israel up from Egypt,
 Ephraim has given bitter provocation;
When Ephraim spoke, there was trembling;
And now they sin more and more,
Therefore they shall be like the morning mist
But I am the Lord your God
 It was I who knew you in the wilderness,
 but when they had grazed, they became full,
So I am to them like a lion;
I will fall upon them like a bear robbed of her cubs;
He destroys you, O Israel,
 Where now is your king, to save you in all your cities?
 I gave you a king in my anger,
The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up;
 The pangs of childbirth come for him,
 I shall ransom them from the power of Sheol;
Though he may flourish among his brothers,
  Samaria shall bear her guilt,
 Return, O Israel, to the Lord your God,
Take with you words
 Assyria shall not save us;
I will heal their apostasy;
 I will be like the dew to Israel;
his shoots shall spread out;
They shall return and dwell beneath my shadow;
O Ephraim, what have I to do with idols?
 Whoever is wise, let him understand these things;
