The words of Amos, who was among the shepherds of Tekoa, which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah king of Judah and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel, two years before the earthquake.
And he said:
Thus says the Lord:
 So I will send a fire upon the house of Hazael,
I will break the gate-bar of Damascus,
Thus says the Lord:
So I will send a fire upon the wall of Gaza,
I will cut off the inhabitants from Ashdod,
Thus says the Lord:
So I will send a fire upon the wall of Tyre,
Thus says the Lord:
So I will send a fire upon Teman,
Thus says the Lord:
So I will kindle a fire in the wall of Rabbah,
and their king shall go into exile,
Thus says the Lord:
So I will send a fire upon Moab,
 I will cut off the ruler from its midst,
Thus says the Lord:
So I will send a fire upon Judah,
Thus says the Lord:
those who trample the head of the poor into the dust of the earth
they lay themselves down beside every altar
“Yet it was I who destroyed the Amorite before them,
 Also it was I who brought you up out of the land of Egypt
And I raised up some of your sons for prophets,
“But you made the Nazirites drink wine,
“Behold, I will press you down in your place,
 Flight shall perish from the swift,
he who handles the bow shall not stand,
and he who is stout of heart among the mighty
 Hear this word that the Lord has spoken against you, O people of Israel, against the whole family that I brought up out of the land of Egypt:
 “You only have I known
“Do two walk together,
Does a lion roar in the forest,
Does a bird fall in a snare on the earth,
 Is a trumpet blown in a city,
“For the Lord God does nothing
The lion has roared;
Proclaim to the strongholds in Ashdod
“They do not know how to do right,” declares the Lord,
Therefore thus says the Lord God:
Thus says the Lord: “As the shepherd rescues from the mouth of the lion two legs, or a piece of an ear, so shall the people of Israel who dwell in Samaria be rescued, with the corner of a couch and part of a bed.
“Hear, and testify against the house of Jacob,”
“that on the day I punish Israel for his transgressions,
 I will strike the winter house along with the summer house,
“Hear this word, you cows of Bashan,
 The Lord God has sworn by his holiness
 And you shall go out through the breaches,
 “Come to Bethel, and transgress;
offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving of that which is leavened,
“I gave you cleanness of teeth in all your cities,
“I also withheld the rain from you
so two or three cities would wander to another city
 “I struck you with blight and mildew;
“I sent among you a pestilence after the manner of Egypt;
“I overthrew some of you,
“Therefore thus I will do to you, O Israel;
For behold, he who forms the mountains and creates the wind,
Hear this word that I take up over you in lamentation, O house of Israel:
“Fallen, no more to rise,
For thus says the Lord God:
For thus says the Lord to the house of Israel:
but do not seek Bethel,
 Seek the Lord and live,
O you who turn justice to wormwood
He who made the Pleiades and Orion,
 who makes destruction flash forth against the strong,
 They hate him who reproves in the gate,
Therefore because you trample on the poor
For I know how many are your transgressions
Therefore he who is prudent will keep silent in such a time,
 Seek good, and not evil,
 Hate evil, and love good,
Therefore thus says the Lord, the God of hosts, the Lord:
and in all vineyards there shall be wailing,
Woe to you who desire the day of the Lord!
 as if a man fled from a lion,
 Is not the day of the Lord darkness, and not light,
 “I hate, I despise your feasts,
 Even though you offer me your burnt offerings and grain offerings,
Take away from me the noise of your songs;
But let justice roll down like waters,
 “Did you bring to me sacrifices and offerings during the forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel? 
You shall take up Sikkuth your king, and Kiyyun your star-god—your images that you made for yourselves, 
and I will send you into exile beyond Damascus,” says the Lord, whose name is the God of hosts.
 “Woe to those who are at ease in Zion,
Pass over to Calneh, and see,
 O you who put far away the day of disaster
“Woe to those who lie on beds of ivory
 who sing idle songs to the sound of the harp
 who drink wine in bowls
 Therefore they shall now be the first of those who go into exile,
 The Lord God has sworn by himself, declares the Lord, the God of hosts:
And if ten men remain in one house, they shall die. 
And when one’s relative, the one who anoints him for burial, shall take him up to bring the bones out of the house, and shall say to him who is in the innermost parts of the house, “Is there still anyone with you?” he shall say, “No”; and he shall say, “Silence! We must not mention the name of the Lord.”
For behold, the Lord commands,
Do horses run on rocks?
you who rejoice in Lo-debar,
“For behold, I will raise up against you a nation,
 This is what the Lord God showed me: behold, he was forming locusts when the latter growth was just beginning to sprout, and behold, it was the latter growth after the king’s mowings. 
When they had finished eating the grass of the land, I said,
 The Lord relented concerning this:
 This is what the Lord God showed me: behold, the Lord God was calling for a judgment by fire, and it devoured the great deep and was eating up the land. 
Then I said,
 The Lord relented concerning this:
 This is what he showed me: behold, the Lord was standing beside a wall built with a plumb line, with a plumb line in his hand. 
And the Lord said to me, “Amos, what do you see?” And I said, “A plumb line.” Then the Lord said,
 the high places of Isaac shall be made desolate,
Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, “Amos has conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel. The land is not able to bear all his words. 
For thus Amos has said,
And Amaziah said to Amos, “O seer, go, flee away to the land of Judah, and eat bread there, and prophesy there, 
but never again prophesy at Bethel, for it is the king’s sanctuary, and it is a temple of the kingdom.”
Then Amos answered and said to Amaziah, “I was no prophet, nor a prophet’s son, but I was a herdsman and a dresser of sycamore figs. 
But the Lord took me from following the flock, and the Lord said to me, ‘Go, prophesy to my people Israel.’ 
Now therefore hear the word of the Lord.
 Therefore thus says the Lord:
 This is what the Lord God showed me: behold, a basket of summer fruit. 
And he said, “Amos, what do you see?” And I said, “A basket of summer fruit.” Then the Lord said to me,
 The songs of the temple shall become wailings in that day,”
Hear this, you who trample on the needy
saying, “When will the new moon be over,
that we may buy the poor for silver
The Lord has sworn by the pride of Jacob:
 Shall not the land tremble on this account,
“And on that day,” declares the Lord God,
 I will turn your feasts into mourning
“Behold, the days are coming,” declares the Lord God,
 They shall wander from sea to sea,
 “In that day the lovely virgins and the young men
Those who swear by the Guilt of Samaria,
I saw the Lord standing beside the altar, and he said:
 “If they dig into Sheol,
If they hide themselves on the top of Carmel,
 And if they go into captivity before their enemies,
The Lord God of hosts,
 who builds his upper chambers in the heavens
“Are you not like the Cushites to me,
Behold, the eyes of the Lord God are upon the sinful kingdom,
“For behold, I will command,
All the sinners of my people shall die by the sword,
“In that day I will raise up
 that they may possess the remnant of Edom
“Behold, the days are coming,” declares the Lord,
 I will restore the fortunes of my people Israel,
 I will plant them on their land,
