The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
 Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth;
The ox knows its owner,
Ah, sinful nation,
Why will you still be struck down?
 From the sole of the foot even to the head,
 Your country lies desolate;
And the daughter of Zion is left
 If the Lord of hosts
Hear the word of the Lord,
 “What to me is the multitude of your sacrifices?
“When you come to appear before me,
Bring no more vain offerings;
Your new moons and your appointed feasts
When you spread out your hands,
 Wash yourselves; make yourselves clean;
learn to do good;
“Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord:
 If you are willing and obedient,
but if you refuse and rebel,
How the faithful city
 Your silver has become dross,
Your princes are rebels
Therefore the Lord declares,
 I will turn my hand against you
And I will restore your judges as at the first,
 Zion shall be redeemed by justice,
 But rebels and sinners shall be broken together,
 For they shall be ashamed of the oaks
For you shall be like an oak
And the strong shall become tinder,
The word that Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem.
 It shall come to pass in the latter days
and many peoples shall come, and say:
He shall judge between the nations,
O house of Jacob,
For you have rejected your people,
Their land is filled with silver and gold,
Their land is filled with idols;
So man is humbled,
 Enter into the rock
 The haughty looks of man shall be brought low,
 For the Lord of hosts has a day
against all the cedars of Lebanon,
against all the lofty mountains,
against every high tower,
against all the ships of Tarshish,
 And the haughtiness of man shall be humbled,
 And the idols shall utterly pass away.
 And people shall enter the caves of the rocks
In that day mankind will cast away
 to enter the caverns of the rocks
 Stop regarding man
For behold, the Lord God of hosts
 the mighty man and the soldier,
the captain of fifty
 And I will make boys their princes,
 And the people will oppress one another,
For a man will take hold of his brother
in that day he will speak out, saying:
For Jerusalem has stumbled,
For the look on their faces bears witness against them;
 Tell the righteous that it shall be well with them,
 Woe to the wicked! It shall be ill with him,
My people—infants are their oppressors,
The Lord has taken his place to contend;
The Lord will enter into judgment
What do you mean by crushing my people,
The Lord said:
therefore the Lord will strike with a scab
In that day the Lord will take away the finery of the anklets, the headbands, and the crescents; 
the pendants, the bracelets, and the scarves; 
the headdresses, the armlets, the sashes, the perfume boxes, and the amulets; 
the signet rings and nose rings; 
the festal robes, the mantles, the cloaks, and the handbags; 
the mirrors, the linen garments, the turbans, and the veils.
Instead of perfume there will be rottenness;
Your men shall fall by the sword
And her gates shall lament and mourn;
 And seven women shall take hold of one man in that day, saying, “We will eat our own bread and wear our own clothes, only let us be called by your name; take away our reproach.”
In that day the branch of the Lord shall be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the land shall be the pride and honor of the survivors of Israel. 
And he who is left in Zion and remains in Jerusalem will be called holy, everyone who has been recorded for life in Jerusalem, 
when the Lord shall have washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion and cleansed the bloodstains of Jerusalem from its midst by a spirit of judgment and by a spirit of burning. 
Then the Lord will create over the whole site of Mount Zion and over her assemblies a cloud by day, and smoke and the shining of a flaming fire by night; for over all the glory there will be a canopy. 
There will be a booth for shade by day from the heat, and for a refuge and a shelter from the storm and rain.
Let me sing for my beloved
He dug it and cleared it of stones,
And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem
 What more was there to do for my vineyard,
And now I will tell you
I will make it a waste;
 For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts
Woe to those who join house to house,
The Lord of hosts has sworn in my hearing:
 For ten acres of vineyard shall yield but one bath,
Woe to those who rise early in the morning,
 They have lyre and harp,
Therefore my people go into exile
Therefore Sheol has enlarged its appetite
 Man is humbled, and each one is brought low,
 But the Lord of hosts is exalted in justice,
Then shall the lambs graze as in their pasture,
Woe to those who draw iniquity with cords of falsehood,
who say: “Let him be quick,
Woe to those who call evil good
Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes,
Woe to those who are heroes at drinking wine,
who acquit the guilty for a bribe,
Therefore, as the tongue of fire devours the stubble,
Therefore the anger of the Lord was kindled against his people,
He will raise a signal for nations far away,
 None is weary, none stumbles,
 their arrows are sharp,
Their roaring is like a lion,
They will growl over it on that day,
In the year that King Uzziah died I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up; and the train of his robe filled the temple. 
Above him stood the seraphim. Each had six wings: with two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew. 
And one called to another and said:
And the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke. 
And I said: “Woe is me! For I am lost; for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips; for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts!”
Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal that he had taken with tongs from the altar. 
And he touched my mouth and said: “Behold, this has touched your lips; your guilt is taken away, and your sin atoned for.”
And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, “Whom shall I send, and who will go for us?” Then I said, “Here I am! Send me.” 
And he said, “Go, and say to this people:
 Make the heart of this people dull,
Then I said, “How long, O Lord?”
and the Lord removes people far away,
 And though a tenth remain in it,
In the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, son of Uzziah, king of Judah, Rezin the king of Syria and Pekah the son of Remaliah the king of Israel came up to Jerusalem to wage war against it, but could not yet mount an attack against it. 
When the house of David was told, “Syria is in league with Ephraim,” the heart of Ahaz and the heart of his people shook as the trees of the forest shake before the wind.
And the Lord said to Isaiah, “Go out to meet Ahaz, you and Shear-jashub your son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the Washer’s Field. 
And say to him, ‘Be careful, be quiet, do not fear, and do not let your heart be faint because of these two smoldering stumps of firebrands, at the fierce anger of Rezin and Syria and the son of Remaliah. 
Because Syria, with Ephraim and the son of Remaliah, has devised evil against you, saying, 
“Let us go up against Judah and terrify it, and let us conquer it for ourselves, and set up the son of Tabeel as king in the midst of it,” 
thus says the Lord God:
For the head of Syria is Damascus,
And the head of Ephraim is Samaria,
Again the Lord spoke to Ahaz: 
“Ask a sign of the Lord your God; let it be deep as Sheol or high as heaven.” 
But Ahaz said, “I will not ask, and I will not put the Lord to the test.” 
And he said, “Hear then, O house of David! Is it too little for you to weary men, that you weary my God also? 
Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel. 
He shall eat curds and honey when he knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good. 
For before the boy knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land whose two kings you dread will be deserted. 
The Lord will bring upon you and upon your people and upon your father’s house such days as have not come since the day that Ephraim departed from Judah—the king of Assyria!”
In that day the Lord will whistle for the fly that is at the end of the streams of Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria. 
And they will all come and settle in the steep ravines, and in the clefts of the rocks, and on all the thornbushes, and on all the pastures.
In that day the Lord will shave with a razor that is hired beyond the River—with the king of Assyria—the head and the hair of the feet, and it will sweep away the beard also.
 In that day a man will keep alive a young cow and two sheep, 
and because of the abundance of milk that they give, he will eat curds, for everyone who is left in the land will eat curds and honey.
In that day every place where there used to be a thousand vines, worth a thousand shekels of silver, will become briers and thorns. 
With bow and arrows a man will come there, for all the land will be briers and thorns. 
And as for all the hills that used to be hoed with a hoe, you will not come there for fear of briers and thorns, but they will become a place where cattle are let loose and where sheep tread.
Then the Lord said to me, “Take a large tablet and write on it in common characters, ‘Belonging to Maher-shalal-hash-baz.’ 
And I will get reliable witnesses, Uriah the priest and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah, to attest for me.”
And I went to the prophetess, and she conceived and bore a son. Then the Lord said to me, “Call his name Maher-shalal-hash-baz; 
for before the boy knows how to cry ‘My father’ or ‘My mother,’ the wealth of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria will be carried away before the king of Assyria.”
The Lord spoke to me again: 
“Because this people has refused the waters of Shiloah that flow gently, and rejoice over Rezin and the son of Remaliah, 
therefore, behold, the Lord is bringing up against them the waters of the River, mighty and many, the king of Assyria and all his glory. And it will rise over all its channels and go over all its banks, 
and it will sweep on into Judah, it will overflow and pass on, reaching even to the neck, and its outspread wings will fill the breadth of your land, O Immanuel.”
Be broken, you peoples, and be shattered;
Take counsel together, but it will come to nothing;
For the Lord spoke thus to me with his strong hand upon me, and warned me not to walk in the way of this people, saying: 
“Do not call conspiracy all that this people calls conspiracy, and do not fear what they fear, nor be in dread. 
But the Lord of hosts, him you shall honor as holy. Let him be your fear, and let him be your dread. 
And he will become a sanctuary and a stone of offense and a rock of stumbling to both houses of Israel, a trap and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
And many shall stumble on it. They shall fall and be broken; they shall be snared and taken.”
Bind up the testimony; seal the teaching among my disciples. 
I will wait for the Lord, who is hiding his face from the house of Jacob, and I will hope in him. 
Behold, I and the children whom the Lord has given me are signs and portents in Israel from the Lord of hosts, who dwells on Mount Zion. 
And when they say to you, “Inquire of the mediums and the necromancers who chirp and mutter,” should not a people inquire of their God? Should they inquire of the dead on behalf of the living? 
To the teaching and to the testimony! If they will not speak according to this word, it is because they have no dawn. 
They will pass through the land, greatly distressed and hungry. And when they are hungry, they will be enraged and will speak contemptuously against their king and their God, and turn their faces upward. 
And they will look to the earth, but behold, distress and darkness, the gloom of anguish. And they will be thrust into thick darkness.
  But there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations.
  The people who walked in darkness
 You have multiplied the nation;
 For the yoke of his burden,
 For every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult
 For to us a child is born,
Of the increase of his government and of peace
The Lord has sent a word against Jacob,
and all the people will know,
“The bricks have fallen,
But the Lord raises the adversaries of Rezin against him,
 The Syrians on the east and the Philistines on the west
The people did not turn to him who struck them,
So the Lord cut off from Israel head and tail,
 the elder and honored man is the head,
for those who guide this people have been leading them astray,
Therefore the Lord does not rejoice over their young men,
For wickedness burns like a fire;
Through the wrath of the Lord of hosts
 They slice meat on the right, but are still hungry,
Manasseh devours Ephraim, and Ephraim devours Manasseh;
Woe to those who decree iniquitous decrees,
to turn aside the needy from justice
What will you do on the day of punishment,
Nothing remains but to crouch among the prisoners
Woe to Assyria, the rod of my anger;
Against a godless nation I send him,
But he does not so intend,
for he says:
 Is not Calno like Carchemish?
As my hand has reached to the kingdoms of the idols,
shall I not do to Jerusalem and her idols
 When the Lord has finished all his work on Mount Zion and on Jerusalem, he will punish the speech of the arrogant heart of the king of Assyria and the boastful look in his eyes. 
For he says:
My hand has found like a nest
Shall the axe boast over him who hews with it,
Therefore the Lord God of hosts
 The light of Israel will become a fire,
The glory of his forest and of his fruitful land
The remnant of the trees of his forest will be so few
 In that day the remnant of Israel and the survivors of the house of Jacob will no more lean on him who struck them, but will lean on the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, in truth. 
A remnant will return, the remnant of Jacob, to the mighty God. 
For though your people Israel be as the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will return. Destruction is decreed, overflowing with righteousness. 
For the Lord God of hosts will make a full end, as decreed, in the midst of all the earth.
Therefore thus says the Lord God of hosts: “O my people, who dwell in Zion, be not afraid of the Assyrians when they strike with the rod and lift up their staff against you as the Egyptians did. 
For in a very little while my fury will come to an end, and my anger will be directed to their destruction. 
And the Lord of hosts will wield against them a whip, as when he struck Midian at the rock of Oreb. And his staff will be over the sea, and he will lift it as he did in Egypt. 
And in that day his burden will depart from your shoulder, and his yoke from your neck; and the yoke will be broken because of the fat.”
He has come to Aiath;
they have crossed over the pass;
Cry aloud, O daughter of Gallim!
Madmenah is in flight;
This very day he will halt at Nob;
Behold, the Lord God of hosts
He will cut down the thickets of the forest with an axe,
There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse,
And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him,
And his delight shall be in the fear of the Lord.
but with righteousness he shall judge the poor,
Righteousness shall be the belt of his waist,
 The wolf shall dwell with the lamb,
The cow and the bear shall graze;
The nursing child shall play over the hole of the cobra,
 They shall not hurt or destroy
In that day the root of Jesse, who shall stand as a signal for the peoples—of him shall the nations inquire, and his resting place shall be glorious.
 In that day the Lord will extend his hand yet a second time to recover the remnant that remains of his people, from Assyria, from Egypt, from Pathros, from Cush, from Elam, from Shinar, from Hamath, and from the coastlands of the sea.
He will raise a signal for the nations
 The jealousy of Ephraim shall depart,
 But they shall swoop down on the shoulder of the Philistines in the west,
And the Lord will utterly destroy
And there will be a highway from Assyria
You will say in that day:
“Behold, God is my salvation;
 With joy you will draw water from the wells of salvation. 
And you will say in that day:
 “Sing praises to the Lord, for he has done gloriously;
Shout, and sing for joy, O inhabitant of Zion,
The oracle concerning Babylon which Isaiah the son of Amoz saw.
On a bare hill raise a signal;
I myself have commanded my consecrated ones,
The sound of a tumult is on the mountains
 They come from a distant land,
 Wail, for the day of the Lord is near;
Therefore all hands will be feeble,
They will be dismayed:
Behold, the day of the Lord comes,
 For the stars of the heavens and their constellations
I will punish the world for its evil,
I will make people more rare than fine gold,
Therefore I will make the heavens tremble,
And like a hunted gazelle,
Whoever is found will be thrust through,
 Their infants will be dashed in pieces
Behold, I am stirring up the Medes against them,
 Their bows will slaughter the young men;
And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms,
 It will never be inhabited
But wild animals will lie down there,
Hyenas will cry in its towers,
 For the Lord will have compassion on Jacob and will again choose Israel, and will set them in their own land, and sojourners will join them and will attach themselves to the house of Jacob. 
And the peoples will take them and bring them to their place, and the house of Israel will possess them in the Lord’s land as male and female slaves. They will take captive those who were their captors, and rule over those who oppressed them.
When the Lord has given you rest from your pain and turmoil and the hard service with which you were made to serve, 
you will take up this taunt against the king of Babylon:
The Lord has broken the staff of the wicked,
 that struck the peoples in wrath
The whole earth is at rest and quiet;
  The cypresses rejoice at you,
Sheol beneath is stirred up
 All of them will answer
Your pomp is brought down to Sheol,
“How you are fallen from heaven,
You said in your heart,
I will ascend above the heights of the clouds;
 But you are brought down to Sheol,
Those who see you will stare at you
who made the world like a desert
All the kings of the nations lie in glory,
but you are cast out, away from your grave,
You will not be joined with them in burial,
Prepare slaughter for his sons
“I will rise up against them,” declares the Lord of hosts, “and will cut off from Babylon name and remnant, descendants and posterity,” declares the Lord. 
“And I will make it a possession of the hedgehog, and pools of water, and I will sweep it with the broom of destruction,” declares the Lord of hosts.
The Lord of hosts has sworn:
that I will break the Assyrian in my land,
This is the purpose that is purposed
 For the Lord of hosts has purposed,
In the year that King Ahaz died came this oracle:
Rejoice not, O Philistia, all of you,
And the firstborn of the poor will graze,
 Wail, O gate; cry out, O city;
What will one answer the messengers of the nation?
An oracle concerning Moab.
He has gone up to the temple, and to Dibon,
in the streets they wear sackcloth;
 Heshbon and Elealeh cry out;
My heart cries out for Moab;
the waters of Nimrim
 Therefore the abundance they have gained
For a cry has gone
For the waters of Dibon are full of blood;
 Send the lamb to the ruler of the land,
Like fleeing birds,
“Give counsel;
let the outcasts of Moab
 then a throne will be established in steadfast love,
 We have heard of the pride of Moab—
Therefore let Moab wail for Moab,
For the fields of Heshbon languish,
Therefore I weep with the weeping of Jazer
 And joy and gladness are taken away from the fruitful field,
Therefore my inner parts moan like a lyre for Moab,
And when Moab presents himself, when he wearies himself on the high place, when he comes to his sanctuary to pray, he will not prevail.
This is the word that the Lord spoke concerning Moab in the past. 
But now the Lord has spoken, saying, “In three years, like the years of a hired worker, the glory of Moab will be brought into contempt, in spite of all his great multitude, and those who remain will be very few and feeble.”
An oracle concerning Damascus.
The cities of Aroer are deserted;
The fortress will disappear from Ephraim,
And in that day the glory of Jacob will be brought low,
And it shall be as when the reaper gathers standing grain
 Gleanings will be left in it,
 In that day man will look to his Maker, and his eyes will look on the Holy One of Israel. 
He will not look to the altars, the work of his hands, and he will not look on what his own fingers have made, either the Asherim or the altars of incense.
 In that day their strong cities will be like the deserted places of the wooded heights and the hilltops, which they deserted because of the children of Israel, and there will be desolation.
For you have forgotten the God of your salvation
though you make them grow on the day that you plant them,
Ah, the thunder of many peoples;
 The nations roar like the roaring of many waters,
 At evening time, behold, terror!
Ah, land of whirring wings
which sends ambassadors by the sea,
All you inhabitants of the world,
For thus the Lord said to me:
 For before the harvest, when the blossom is over,
 They shall all of them be left
 At that time tribute will be brought to the Lord of hosts
An oracle concerning Egypt.
And I will stir up Egyptians against Egyptians,
and the spirit of the Egyptians within them will be emptied out,
and I will give over the Egyptians
And the waters of the sea will be dried up,
and its canals will become foul,
There will be bare places by the Nile,
The fishermen will mourn and lament,
The workers in combed flax will be in despair,
Those who are the pillars of the land will be crushed,
The princes of Zoan are utterly foolish;
Where then are your wise men?
The princes of Zoan have become fools,
The Lord has mingled within her a spirit of confusion,
And there will be nothing for Egypt
In that day the Egyptians will be like women, and tremble with fear before the hand that the Lord of hosts shakes over them. 
And the land of Judah will become a terror to the Egyptians. Everyone to whom it is mentioned will fear because of the purpose that the Lord of hosts has purposed against them.
 In that day there will be five cities in the land of Egypt that speak the language of Canaan and swear allegiance to the Lord of hosts. One of these will be called the City of Destruction.
In that day there will be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar to the Lord at its border. 
It will be a sign and a witness to the Lord of hosts in the land of Egypt. When they cry to the Lord because of oppressors, he will send them a savior and defender, and deliver them. 
And the Lord will make himself known to the Egyptians, and the Egyptians will know the Lord in that day and worship with sacrifice and offering, and they will make vows to the Lord and perform them. 
And the Lord will strike Egypt, striking and healing, and they will return to the Lord, and he will listen to their pleas for mercy and heal them.
 In that day there will be a highway from Egypt to Assyria, and Assyria will come into Egypt, and Egypt into Assyria, and the Egyptians will worship with the Assyrians.
In that day Israel will be the third with Egypt and Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the earth, 
whom the Lord of hosts has blessed, saying, “Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel my inheritance.”
In the year that the commander in chief, who was sent by Sargon the king of Assyria, came to Ashdod and fought against it and captured it— 
at that time the Lord spoke by Isaiah the son of Amoz, saying, “Go, and loose the sackcloth from your waist and take off your sandals from your feet,” and he did so, walking naked and barefoot.
Then the Lord said, “As my servant Isaiah has walked naked and barefoot for three years as a sign and a portent against Egypt and Cush, 
so shall the king of Assyria lead away the Egyptian captives and the Cushite exiles, both the young and the old, naked and barefoot, with buttocks uncovered, the nakedness of Egypt. 
Then they shall be dismayed and ashamed because of Cush their hope and of Egypt their boast. 
And the inhabitants of this coastland will say in that day, ‘Behold, this is what has happened to those in whom we hoped and to whom we fled for help to be delivered from the king of Assyria! And we, how shall we escape?’”
The oracle concerning the wilderness of the sea.
A stern vision is told to me;
Therefore my loins are filled with anguish;
My heart staggers; horror has appalled me;
 They prepare the table,
For thus the Lord said to me:
When he sees riders, horsemen in pairs,
Then he who saw cried out:
And behold, here come riders,
O my threshed and winnowed one,
The oracle concerning Dumah.
The watchman says:
The oracle concerning Arabia.
To the thirsty bring water;
For they have fled from the swords,
For thus the Lord said to me, “Within a year, according to the years of a hired worker, all the glory of Kedar will come to an end. 
And the remainder of the archers of the mighty men of the sons of Kedar will be few, for the Lord, the God of Israel, has spoken.”
The oracle concerning the valley of vision.
you who are full of shoutings,
 All your leaders have fled together;
Therefore I said:
 For the Lord God of hosts has a day
And Elam bore the quiver
Your choicest valleys were full of chariots,
He has taken away the covering of Judah.
and you saw that the breaches of the city of David were many. You collected the waters of the lower pool, 
and you counted the houses of Jerusalem, and you broke down the houses to fortify the wall. 
You made a reservoir between the two walls for the water of the old pool. But you did not look to him who did it, or see him who planned it long ago.
In that day the Lord God of hosts
and behold, joy and gladness,
The Lord of hosts has revealed himself in my ears:
Thus says the Lord God of hosts, “Come, go to this steward, to Shebna, who is over the household, and say to him: 
What have you to do here, and whom have you here, that you have cut out here a tomb for yourself, you who cut out a tomb on the height and carve a dwelling for yourself in the rock? 
Behold, the Lord will hurl you away violently, O you strong man. He will seize firm hold on you 
and whirl you around and around, and throw you like a ball into a wide land. There you shall die, and there shall be your glorious chariots, you shame of your master’s house. 
I will thrust you from your office, and you will be pulled down from your station. 
In that day I will call my servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, 
and I will clothe him with your robe, and will bind your sash on him, and will commit your authority to his hand. And he shall be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. 
And I will place on his shoulder the key of the house of David. He shall open, and none shall shut; and he shall shut, and none shall open. 
And I will fasten him like a peg in a secure place, and he will become a throne of honor to his father’s house. 
And they will hang on him the whole honor of his father’s house, the offspring and issue, every small vessel, from the cups to all the flagons. 
In that day, declares the Lord of hosts, the peg that was fastened in a secure place will give way, and it will be cut down and fall, and the load that was on it will be cut off, for the Lord has spoken.”
The oracle concerning Tyre.
Be still, O inhabitants of the coast;
And on many waters
Be ashamed, O Sidon, for the sea has spoken,
When the report comes to Egypt,
 Cross over to Tarshish;
Is this your exultant city
Who has purposed this
The Lord of hosts has purposed it,
Cross over your land like the Nile,
 He has stretched out his hand over the sea;
And he said:
Behold the land of the Chaldeans! This is the people that was not; Assyria destined it for wild beasts. They erected their siege towers, they stripped her palaces bare, they made her a ruin.
 Wail, O ships of Tarshish,
In that day Tyre will be forgotten for seventy years, like the days of one king. At the end of seventy years, it will happen to Tyre as in the song of the prostitute:
“Take a harp;
At the end of seventy years, the Lord will visit Tyre, and she will return to her wages and will prostitute herself with all the kingdoms of the world on the face of the earth. 
Her merchandise and her wages will be holy to the Lord. It will not be stored or hoarded, but her merchandise will supply abundant food and fine clothing for those who dwell before the Lord.
Behold, the Lord will empty the earth and make it desolate,
 And it shall be, as with the people, so with the priest;
 The earth shall be utterly empty and utterly plundered;
 The earth mourns and withers;
The earth lies defiled
Therefore a curse devours the earth,
 The wine mourns,
 The mirth of the tambourines is stilled,
No more do they drink wine with singing;
 The wasted city is broken down;
 There is an outcry in the streets for lack of wine;
Desolation is left in the city;
For thus it shall be in the midst of the earth
They lift up their voices, they sing for joy;
 Therefore in the east give glory to the Lord;
 From the ends of the earth we hear songs of praise,
 Terror and the pit and the snare
 He who flees at the sound of the terror
The earth is utterly broken,
The earth staggers like a drunken man;
On that day the Lord will punish
 They will be gathered together
 Then the moon will be confounded
O Lord, you are my God;
For you have made the city a heap,
 Therefore strong peoples will glorify you;
 For you have been a stronghold to the poor,
 like heat in a dry place.
 On this mountain the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples
And he will swallow up on this mountain
 He will swallow up death forever;
It will be said on that day,
For the hand of the Lord will rest on this mountain,
 And he will spread out his hands in the midst of it
And the high fortifications of his walls he will bring down,
In that day this song will be sung in the land of Judah:
 Open the gates,
 You keep him in perfect peace
Trust in the Lord forever,
 For he has humbled
The foot tramples it,
The path of the righteous is level;
In the path of your judgments,
My soul yearns for you in the night;
 If favor is shown to the wicked,
O Lord, your hand is lifted up,
O Lord, you will ordain peace for us,
O Lord our God,
They are dead, they will not live;
 But you have increased the nation, O Lord,
O Lord, in distress they sought you;
 Like a pregnant woman
 we were pregnant, we writhed,
 Your dead shall live; their bodies shall rise.
Come, my people, enter your chambers,
 For behold, the Lord is coming out from his place
In that day the Lord with his hard and great and strong sword will punish Leviathan the fleeing serpent, Leviathan the twisting serpent, and he will slay the dragon that is in the sea.
In that day,
I, the Lord, am its keeper;
I have no wrath.
Or let them lay hold of my protection,
 In days to come Jacob shall take root,
 Has he struck them as he struck those who struck them?
 Measure by measure, by exile you contended with them;
Therefore by this the guilt of Jacob will be atoned for,
 For the fortified city is solitary,
When its boughs are dry, they are broken;
In that day from the river Euphrates to the Brook of Egypt the Lord will thresh out the grain, and you will be gleaned one by one, O people of Israel. 
And in that day a great trumpet will be blown, and those who were lost in the land of Assyria and those who were driven out to the land of Egypt will come and worship the Lord on the holy mountain at Jerusalem.
Ah, the proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim,
Behold, the Lord has one who is mighty and strong;
 The proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim
 and the fading flower of its glorious beauty,
 In that day the Lord of hosts will be a crown of glory,
and a spirit of justice to him who sits in judgment,
 These also reel with wine
For all tables are full of filthy vomit,
 “To whom will he teach knowledge,
For it is precept upon precept, precept upon precept,
 For by people of strange lips
to whom he has said,
And the word of the Lord will be to them
Therefore hear the word of the Lord, you scoffers,
Because you have said, “We have made a covenant with death,
therefore thus says the Lord God,
And I will make justice the line,
Then your covenant with death will be annulled,
As often as it passes through it will take you;
For the bed is too short to stretch oneself on,
For the Lord will rise up as on Mount Perazim;
Now therefore do not scoff,
Give ear, and hear my voice;
Does he who plows for sowing plow continually?
 When he has leveled its surface,
 For he is rightly instructed;
Dill is not threshed with a threshing sledge,
Does one crush grain for bread?
This also comes from the Lord of hosts;
Ah, Ariel, Ariel,
Yet I will distress Ariel,
 And I will encamp against you all around,
 And you will be brought low; from the earth you shall speak,
But the multitude of your foreign foes shall be like small dust,
 you will be visited by the Lord of hosts
And the multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel,
 As when a hungry man dreams, and behold, he is eating,
Astonish yourselves and be astonished;
 For the Lord has poured out upon you
And the vision of all this has become to you like the words of a book that is sealed. When men give it to one who can read, saying, “Read this,” he says, “I cannot, for it is sealed.” 
And when they give the book to one who cannot read, saying, “Read this,” he says, “I cannot read.”
And the Lord said:
therefore, behold, I will again
Ah, you who hide deep from the Lord your counsel,
 You turn things upside down!
Is it not yet a very little while
In that day the deaf shall hear
 The meek shall obtain fresh joy in the Lord,
For the ruthless shall come to nothing
who by a word make a man out to be an offender,
Therefore thus says the Lord, who redeemed Abraham, concerning the house of Jacob:
For when he sees his children,
And those who go astray in spirit will come to understanding,
“Ah, stubborn children,” declares the Lord,
 who set out to go down to Egypt,
 Therefore shall the protection of Pharaoh turn to your shame,
For though his officials are at Zoan
everyone comes to shame
An oracle on the beasts of the Negeb.
Egypt’s help is worthless and empty;
And now, go, write it before them on a tablet
 For they are a rebellious people,
 who say to the seers, “Do not see,”
leave the way, turn aside from the path,
Therefore thus says the Holy One of Israel,
therefore this iniquity shall be to you
and its breaking is like that of a potter’s vessel
For thus said the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel,
and you said,
 A thousand shall flee at the threat of one;
Therefore the Lord waits to be gracious to you,
For a people shall dwell in Zion, in Jerusalem; you shall weep no more. He will surely be gracious to you at the sound of your cry. As soon as he hears it, he answers you. 
And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity and the water of affliction, yet your Teacher will not hide himself anymore, but your eyes shall see your Teacher. 
And your ears shall hear a word behind you, saying, “This is the way, walk in it,” when you turn to the right or when you turn to the left. 
Then you will defile your carved idols overlaid with silver and your gold-plated metal images. You will scatter them as unclean things. You will say to them, “Be gone!”
 And he will give rain for the seed with which you sow the ground, and bread, the produce of the ground, which will be rich and plenteous. In that day your livestock will graze in large pastures, 
and the oxen and the donkeys that work the ground will eat seasoned fodder, which has been winnowed with shovel and fork. 
And on every lofty mountain and every high hill there will be brooks running with water, in the day of the great slaughter, when the towers fall. 
Moreover, the light of the moon will be as the light of the sun, and the light of the sun will be sevenfold, as the light of seven days, in the day when the Lord binds up the brokenness of his people, and heals the wounds inflicted by his blow.
Behold, the name of the Lord comes from afar,
 his breath is like an overflowing stream
You shall have a song as in the night when a holy feast is kept, and gladness of heart, as when one sets out to the sound of the flute to go to the mountain of the Lord, to the Rock of Israel. 
And the Lord will cause his majestic voice to be heard and the descending blow of his arm to be seen, in furious anger and a flame of devouring fire, with a cloudburst and storm and hailstones. 
The Assyrians will be terror-stricken at the voice of the Lord, when he strikes with his rod. 
And every stroke of the appointed staff that the Lord lays on them will be to the sound of tambourines and lyres. Battling with brandished arm, he will fight with them. 
For a burning place has long been prepared; indeed, for the king it is made ready, its pyre made deep and wide, with fire and wood in abundance; the breath of the Lord, like a stream of sulfur, kindles it.
Woe to those who go down to Egypt for help
And yet he is wise and brings disaster;
The Egyptians are man, and not God,
For thus the Lord said to me,
 Like birds hovering, so the Lord of hosts
 Turn to him from whom people have deeply revolted, O children of Israel. 
For in that day everyone shall cast away his idols of silver and his idols of gold, which your hands have sinfully made for you.
 “And the Assyrian shall fall by a sword, not of man;
 His rock shall pass away in terror,
Behold, a king will reign in righteousness,
 Each will be like a hiding place from the wind,
 Then the eyes of those who see will not be closed,
The heart of the hasty will understand and know,
 The fool will no more be called noble,
For the fool speaks folly,
As for the scoundrel—his devices are evil;
But he who is noble plans noble things,
 Rise up, you women who are at ease, hear my voice;
In little more than a year
Tremble, you women who are at ease,
 Beat your breasts for the pleasant fields,
 for the soil of my people
For the palace is forsaken,
until the Spirit is poured upon us from on high,
Then justice will dwell in the wilderness,
 And the effect of righteousness will be peace,
My people will abide in a peaceful habitation,
 And it will hail when the forest falls down,
 Happy are you who sow beside all waters,
 Ah, you destroyer,
O Lord, be gracious to us; we wait for you.
 At the tumultuous noise peoples flee;
and your spoil is gathered as the caterpillar gathers;
 The Lord is exalted, for he dwells on high;
 and he will be the stability of your times,
Behold, their heroes cry in the streets;
 The highways lie waste;
 The land mourns and languishes;
 “Now I will arise,” says the Lord,
 You conceive chaff; you give birth to stubble;
And the peoples will be as if burned to lime,
Hear, you who are far off, what I have done;
The sinners in Zion are afraid;
 He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly,
he will dwell on the heights;
 Your eyes will behold the king in his beauty;
 Your heart will muse on the terror:
 You will see no more the insolent people,
Behold Zion, the city of our appointed feasts!
But there the Lord in majesty will be for us
For the Lord is our judge; the Lord is our lawgiver;
Your cords hang loose;
And no inhabitant will say, “I am sick”;
Draw near, O nations, to hear,
For the Lord is enraged against all the nations,
Their slain shall be cast out,
 All the host of heaven shall rot away,
For my sword has drunk its fill in the heavens;
The Lord has a sword; it is sated with blood;
 Wild oxen shall fall with them,
 For the Lord has a day of vengeance,
 And the streams of Edom shall be turned into pitch,
Night and day it shall not be quenched;
 But the hawk and the porcupine shall possess it,
Its nobles—there is no one there to call it a kingdom,
 Thorns shall grow over its strongholds,
 And wild animals shall meet with hyenas;
There the owl nests and lays
Seek and read from the book of the Lord:
 He has cast the lot for them;
 The wilderness and the dry land shall be glad;
it shall blossom abundantly
 Strengthen the weak hands,
Say to those who have an anxious heart,
 Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened,
 then shall the lame man leap like a deer,
 the burning sand shall become a pool,
 And a highway shall be there,
No lion shall be there,
 And the ransomed of the Lord shall return
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
 In the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them. 
And the king of Assyria sent the Rabshakeh from Lachish to King Hezekiah at Jerusalem, with a great army. And he stood by the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the Washer’s Field. 
And there came out to him Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder.
And the Rabshakeh said to them, “Say to Hezekiah, ‘Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria: On what do you rest this trust of yours? 
Do you think that mere words are strategy and power for war? In whom do you now trust, that you have rebelled against me? 
Behold, you are trusting in Egypt, that broken reed of a staff, which will pierce the hand of any man who leans on it. Such is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who trust in him. 
But if you say to me, “We trust in the Lord our God,” is it not he whose high places and altars Hezekiah has removed, saying to Judah and to Jerusalem, “You shall worship before this altar”? 
Come now, make a wager with my master the king of Assyria: I will give you two thousand horses, if you are able on your part to set riders on them. 
How then can you repulse a single captain among the least of my master’s servants, when you trust in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen? 
Moreover, is it without the Lord that I have come up against this land to destroy it? The Lord said to me, “Go up against this land and destroy it.”’”
Then Eliakim, Shebna, and Joah said to the Rabshakeh, “Please speak to your servants in Aramaic, for we understand it. Do not speak to us in the language of Judah within the hearing of the people who are on the wall.” 
But the Rabshakeh said, “Has my master sent me to speak these words to your master and to you, and not to the men sitting on the wall, who are doomed with you to eat their own dung and drink their own urine?”
Then the Rabshakeh stood and called out in a loud voice in the language of Judah: “Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria! 
Thus says the king: ‘Do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you. 
Do not let Hezekiah make you trust in the Lord by saying, “The Lord will surely deliver us. This city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.” 
Do not listen to Hezekiah. For thus says the king of Assyria: Make your peace with me and come out to me. Then each one of you will eat of his own vine, and each one of his own fig tree, and each one of you will drink the water of his own cistern, 
until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and wine, a land of bread and vineyards. 
Beware lest Hezekiah mislead you by saying, “The Lord will deliver us.” Has any of the gods of the nations delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria? 
Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim? Have they delivered Samaria out of my hand? 
Who among all the gods of these lands have delivered their lands out of my hand, that the Lord should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?’”
But they were silent and answered him not a word, for the king’s command was, “Do not answer him.” 
Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezekiah with their clothes torn, and told him the words of the Rabshakeh.
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
 As soon as King Hezekiah heard it, he tore his clothes and covered himself with sackcloth and went into the house of the Lord. 
And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and the senior priests, covered with sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz. 
They said to him, “Thus says Hezekiah, ‘This day is a day of distress, of rebuke, and of disgrace; children have come to the point of birth, and there is no strength to bring them forth. 
It may be that the Lord your God will hear the words of the Rabshakeh, whom his master the king of Assyria has sent to mock the living God, and will rebuke the words that the Lord your God has heard; therefore lift up your prayer for the remnant that is left.’”
When the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah, 
 In those days Hezekiah became sick and was at the point of death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came to him, and said to him, “Thus says the Lord: Set your house in order, for you shall die, you shall not recover.” 
Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to the Lord, 
and said, “Please, O Lord, remember how I have walked before you in faithfulness and with a whole heart, and have done what is good in your sight.” And Hezekiah wept bitterly.
Then the word of the Lord came to Isaiah: 
“Go and say to Hezekiah, Thus says the Lord, the God of David your father: I have heard your prayer; I have seen your tears. Behold, I will add fifteen years to your life. 
I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria, and will defend this city.
“This shall be the sign to you from the Lord, that the Lord will do this thing that he has promised: 
Behold, I will make the shadow cast by the declining sun on the dial of Ahaz turn back ten steps.” So the sun turned back on the dial the ten steps by which it had declined.
A writing of Hezekiah king of Judah, after he had been sick and had recovered from his sickness:
I said, In the middle of my days
I said, I shall not see the Lord,
My dwelling is plucked up and removed from me
 I calmed myself until morning;
Like a swallow or a crane I chirp;
What shall I say? For he has spoken to me,
 O Lord, by these things men live,
 Behold, it was for my welfare
 For Sheol does not thank you;
The living, the living, he thanks you,
The Lord will save me,
 Now Isaiah had said, “Let them take a cake of figs and apply it to the boil, that he may recover.” 
Hezekiah also had said, “What is the sign that I shall go up to the house of the Lord?”
 At that time Merodach-baladan the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent envoys with letters and a present to Hezekiah, for he heard that he had been sick and had recovered. 
And Hezekiah welcomed them gladly. And he showed them his treasure house, the silver, the gold, the spices, the precious oil, his whole armory, all that was found in his storehouses. There was nothing in his house or in all his realm that Hezekiah did not show them. 
Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah, and said to him, “What did these men say? And from where did they come to you?” Hezekiah said, “They have come to me from a far country, from Babylon.” 
He said, “What have they seen in your house?” Hezekiah answered, “They have seen all that is in my house. There is nothing in my storehouses that I did not show them.”
Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, “Hear the word of the Lord of hosts: 
Behold, the days are coming, when all that is in your house, and that which your fathers have stored up till this day, shall be carried to Babylon. Nothing shall be left, says the Lord. 
And some of your own sons, who will come from you, whom you will father, shall be taken away, and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.” 
Then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “The word of the Lord that you have spoken is good.” For he thought, “There will be peace and security in my days.”
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
 Comfort, comfort my people, says your God.
 Speak tenderly to Jerusalem,
 A voice cries:
 Every valley shall be lifted up,
 And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed,
A voice says, “Cry!”
The grass withers, the flower fades
 The grass withers, the flower fades,
Go on up to a high mountain,
 Behold, the Lord God comes with might,
 He will tend his flock like a shepherd;
 Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand
 Who has measured the Spirit of the Lord,
Whom did he consult,
Behold, the nations are like a drop from a bucket,
Lebanon would not suffice for fuel,
 All the nations are as nothing before him,
 To whom then will you liken God,
 An idol! A craftsman casts it,
 He who is too impoverished for an offering
 Listen to me in silence, O coastlands;
 Who stirred up one from the east
He pursues them and passes on safely,
 Who has performed and done this,
 The coastlands have seen and are afraid;
Everyone helps his neighbor
 The craftsman strengthens the goldsmith,
But you, Israel, my servant,
you whom I took from the ends of the earth,
fear not, for I am with you;
 Behold, all who are incensed against you
 You shall seek those who contend with you,
For I, the Lord your God,
Fear not, you worm Jacob,
 Behold, I make of you a threshing sledge,
 you shall winnow them, and the wind shall carry them away,
 When the poor and needy seek water,
 I will open rivers on the bare heights,
 I will put in the wilderness the cedar,
that they may see and know,
Set forth your case, says the Lord;
Let them bring them, and tell us
 Tell us what is to come hereafter,
Behold, you are nothing,
 I stirred up one from the north, and he has come,
 Who declared it from the beginning, that we might know,
 I was the first to say to Zion, “Behold, here they are!”
 But when I look, there is no one;
 Behold, they are all a delusion;
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
 Behold my servant, whom I uphold,
He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice,
 a bruised reed he will not break,
He will not grow faint or be discouraged
Thus says God, the Lord,
“I am the Lord; I have called you in righteousness;
 to open the eyes that are blind,
I am the Lord; that is my name;
Behold, the former things have come to pass,
 Sing to the Lord a new song,
But now thus says the Lord,
 When you pass through the waters, I will be with you;
For I am the Lord your God,
Because you are precious in my eyes,
 Fear not, for I am with you;
I will say to the north, Give up,
everyone who is called by my name,
Bring out the people who are blind, yet have eyes,
 All the nations gather together,
 “You are my witnesses,” declares the Lord,
 I, I am the Lord,
I declared and saved and proclaimed,
Also henceforth I am he;
“But now hear, O Jacob my servant,
Thus says the Lord who made you,
 For I will pour water on the thirsty land,
They shall spring up among the grass
 This one will say, ‘I am the Lord’s,’
Thus says the Lord, the King of Israel
 Who is like me? Let him proclaim it.
Fear not, nor be afraid;
 All who fashion idols are nothing, and the things they delight in do not profit. Their witnesses neither see nor know, that they may be put to shame. 
Who fashions a god or casts an idol that is profitable for nothing? 
Behold, all his companions shall be put to shame, and the craftsmen are only human. Let them all assemble, let them stand forth. They shall be terrified; they shall be put to shame together.
 The ironsmith takes a cutting tool and works it over the coals. He fashions it with hammers and works it with his strong arm. He becomes hungry, and his strength fails; he drinks no water and is faint. 
Thus says the Lord to his anointed, to Cyrus,
“I will go before you
 I will give you the treasures of darkness
For the sake of my servant Jacob,
 I am the Lord, and there is no other,
 that people may know, from the rising of the sun
I form light and create darkness;
 “Shower, O heavens, from above,
 “Woe to him who strives with him who formed him,
Woe to him who says to a father, ‘What are you begetting?’
Thus says the Lord,
 I made the earth
 I have stirred him up in righteousness,
Thus says the Lord:
 Truly, you are a God who hides himself,
 Bel bows down; Nebo stoops;
They stoop; they bow down together;
“Listen to me, O house of Jacob,
 even to your old age I am he,
 “To whom will you liken me and make me equal,
 Those who lavish gold from the purse,
 They lift it to their shoulders, they carry it,
“Remember this and stand firm,
remember the former things of old;
 Come down and sit in the dust,
Take the millstones and grind flour,
Your nakedness shall be uncovered,
 Our Redeemer—the Lord of hosts is his name—
 Sit in silence, and go into darkness,
 I was angry with my people;
You said, “I shall be mistress forever,”
Now therefore hear this, you lover of pleasures,
 These two things shall come to you
You felt secure in your wickedness;
Hear this, O house of Jacob,
For they call themselves after the holy city,
“The former things I declared of old;
Because I know that you are obstinate,
 I declared them to you from of old,
“You have heard; now see all this;
They are created now, not long ago;
You have never heard, you have never known,
 “For my name’s sake I defer my anger;
Behold, I have refined you, but not as silver;
Listen to me, O coastlands,
 He made my mouth like a sharp sword;
And he said to me, “You are my servant,
 But I said, “I have labored in vain;
 And now the Lord says,
he says:
Thus says the Lord,
Thus says the Lord:
 saying to the prisoners, ‘Come out,’
 they shall not hunger or thirst,
 And I will make all my mountains a road,
Thus says the Lord:
 Why, when I came, was there no man;
 I clothe the heavens with blackness
The Lord God has given me
 The Lord God has opened my ear,
 I gave my back to those who strike,
But the Lord God helps me;
 He who vindicates me is near.
 Behold, the Lord God helps me;
Who among you fears the Lord
Behold, all you who kindle a fire,
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
 “Listen to me, you who pursue righteousness,
Look to Abraham your father
For the Lord comforts Zion;
 “Give attention to me, my people,
 My righteousness draws near,
 Lift up your eyes to the heavens,
 “Listen to me, you who know righteousness,
 For the moth will eat them up like a garment,
 Awake, awake, put on strength,
 Was it not you who dried up the sea,
 And the ransomed of the Lord shall return
“I, I am he who comforts you;
and have forgotten the Lord, your Maker,
 He who is bowed down shall speedily be released;
I am the Lord your God,
 And I have put my words in your mouth
 Wake yourself, wake yourself,
 There is none to guide her
 These two things have happened to you—
 Your sons have fainted;
 Therefore hear this, you who are afflicted,
Thus says your Lord, the Lord,
 and I will put it into the hand of your tormentors,
Empty verse
 Awake, awake,
 Shake yourself from the dust and arise;
For thus says the Lord: “You were sold for nothing, and you shall be redeemed without money.” 
For thus says the Lord God: “My people went down at the first into Egypt to sojourn there, and the Assyrian oppressed them for nothing. 
Now therefore what have I here,” declares the Lord, “seeing that my people are taken away for nothing? Their rulers wail,” declares the Lord, “and continually all the day my name is despised. 
Therefore my people shall know my name. Therefore in that day they shall know that it is I who speak; here I am.”
 How beautiful upon the mountains
The voice of your watchmen—they lift up their voice;
 Break forth together into singing,
 The Lord has bared his holy arm
 Depart, depart, go out from there;
For you shall not go out in haste,
Behold, my servant shall act wisely;
As many were astonished at you—
 Who has believed what he has heard from us?
For he grew up before him like a young plant,
 He was despised and rejected by men,
 Surely he has borne our griefs
 But he was pierced for our transgressions;
 All we like sheep have gone astray;
He was oppressed, and he was afflicted,
By oppression and judgment he was taken away;
And they made his grave with the wicked
 “Sing, O barren one, who did not bear;
 “Enlarge the place of your tent,
 For you will spread abroad to the right and to the left,
“Fear not, for you will not be ashamed;
 For your Maker is your husband,
 For the Lord has called you
 For a brief moment I deserted you,
 In overflowing anger for a moment
“This is like the days of Noah to me:
For the mountains may depart
 “O afflicted one, storm-tossed and not comforted,
I will make your pinnacles of agate,
 All your children shall be taught by the Lord,
In righteousness you shall be established;
 If anyone stirs up strife,
Behold, I have created the smith
no weapon that is fashioned against you shall succeed,
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
 “Come, everyone who thirsts,
 Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread,
Incline your ear, and come to me;
 Behold, I made him a witness to the peoples,
 Behold, you shall call a nation that you do not know,
 “Seek the Lord while he may be found;
let the wicked forsake his way,
For my thoughts are not your thoughts,
 For as the heavens are higher than the earth,
 “For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven
so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth;
 “For you shall go out in joy
 Instead of the thorn shall come up the cypress;
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Thus says the Lord:
Blessed is the man who does this,
Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord say,
For thus says the Lord:
 I will give in my house and within my walls
“And the foreigners who join themselves to the Lord,
 these I will bring to my holy mountain,
The Lord God,
 All you beasts of the field, come to devour—
 His watchmen are blind;
 The dogs have a mighty appetite;
 “Come,” they say, “let me get wine;
Empty verse
The righteous man perishes,
 he enters into peace;
But you, draw near,
Whom are you mocking?
you who burn with lust among the oaks,
Among the smooth stones of the valley is your portion;
 On a high and lofty mountain
Behind the door and the doorpost
You journeyed to the king with oil
You were wearied with the length of your way,
 Whom did you dread and fear,
I will declare your righteousness and your deeds,
 When you cry out, let your collection of idols deliver you!
And it shall be said,
For thus says the One who is high and lifted up,
 For I will not contend forever,
Because of the iniquity of his unjust gain I was angry,
I have seen his ways, but I will heal him;
 creating the fruit of the lips.
 But the wicked are like the tossing sea;
 There is no peace,” says my God, “for the wicked.”
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
“Cry aloud; do not hold back;
 Yet they seek me daily
 ‘Why have we fasted, and you see it not?
Behold, you fast only to quarrel and to fight
 Is such the fast that I choose,
“Is not this the fast that I choose:
Is it not to share your bread with the hungry
 Then shall your light break forth like the dawn,
Then you shall call, and the Lord will answer;
 if you pour yourself out for the hungry
And the Lord will guide you continually
 And your ancient ruins shall be rebuilt;
 “If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath,
Behold, the Lord’s hand is not shortened, that it cannot save,
 but your iniquities have made a separation
 For your hands are defiled with blood
 No one enters suit justly;
They hatch adders’ eggs;
 Their webs will not serve as clothing;
 Their feet run to evil,
The way of peace they do not know,
Therefore justice is far from us,
 We grope for the wall like the blind;
We all growl like bears;
For our transgressions are multiplied before you,
transgressing, and denying the Lord,
 Justice is turned back,
Truth is lacking,
 Arise, shine, for your light has come,
For behold, darkness shall cover the earth,
 And nations shall come to your light,
 Lift up your eyes all around, and see;
Then you shall see and be radiant;
A multitude of camels shall cover you,
All the flocks of Kedar shall be gathered to you;
Who are these that fly like a cloud,
For the coastlands shall hope for me,
 Foreigners shall build up your walls,
 Your gates shall be open continually;
 For the nation and kingdom
 The glory of Lebanon shall come to you,
 The sons of those who afflicted you
 Whereas you have been forsaken and hated,
 You shall suck the milk of nations;
Instead of bronze I will bring gold,
 Violence shall no more be heard in your land,
 The sun shall be no more
Your sun shall no more go down,
 Your people shall all be righteous;
 The least one shall become a clan,
 The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me,
 to proclaim the year of the Lord’s favor,
to grant to those who mourn in Zion—
 They shall build up the ancient ruins;
 Strangers shall stand and tend your flocks;
 but you shall be called the priests of the Lord;
 Instead of your shame there shall be a double portion;
 For I the Lord love justice;
Their offspring shall be known among the nations,
 I will greatly rejoice in the Lord;
For as the earth brings forth its sprouts,
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
 For Zion’s sake I will not keep silent,
 The nations shall see your righteousness,
You shall be a crown of beauty in the hand of the Lord,
 You shall no more be termed Forsaken,
For as a young man marries a young woman,
On your walls, O Jerusalem,
and give him no rest
The Lord has sworn by his right hand
but those who garner it shall eat it
Go through, go through the gates;
Behold, the Lord has proclaimed
Who is this who comes from Edom,
Why is your apparel red,
 “I have trodden the winepress alone,
 For the day of vengeance was in my heart,
I looked, but there was no one to help;
I trampled down the peoples in my anger;
I will recount the steadfast love of the Lord,
For he said, “Surely they are my people,
 In all their affliction he was afflicted,
 But they rebelled
Then he remembered the days of old,
who caused his glorious arm
who led them through the depths?
Like livestock that go down into the valley,
 Look down from heaven and see,
For you are our Father,
O Lord, why do you make us wander from your ways
 Your holy people held possession for a little while;
 We have become like those over whom you have never ruled,
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
 Oh that you would rend the heavens and come down,
  as when fire kindles brushwood
 When you did awesome things that we did not look for,
 From of old no one has heard
You meet him who joyfully works righteousness,
 We have all become like one who is unclean,
 There is no one who calls upon your name,
 But now, O Lord, you are our Father;
 Be not so terribly angry, O Lord,
 Your holy cities have become a wilderness;
 Our holy and beautiful house,
 Will you restrain yourself at these things, O Lord?
Empty verse
Empty verse
Empty verse
 I was ready to be sought by those who did not ask for me;
 I spread out my hands all the day
a people who provoke me
who sit in tombs,
who say, “Keep to yourself,
Behold, it is written before me:
both your iniquities and your fathers’ iniquities together,
Thus says the Lord:
 I will bring forth offspring from Jacob,
 Sharon shall become a pasture for flocks,
But you who forsake the Lord,
I will destine you to the sword,
 Thus says the Lord:
 All these things my hand has made,
 “He who slaughters an ox is like one who kills a man;
 I also will choose harsh treatment for them
Hear the word of the Lord,
“The sound of an uproar from the city!
 “Before she was in labor
Who has heard such a thing?
Shall I bring to the point of birth and not cause to bring forth?”
 “Rejoice with Jerusalem, and be glad for her,
that you may nurse and be satisfied
For thus says the Lord:
As one whom his mother comforts,
You shall see, and your heart shall rejoice;
“For behold, the Lord will come in fire,
For by fire will the Lord enter into judgment,
 “Those who sanctify and purify themselves to go into the gardens, following one in the midst, eating pig’s flesh and the abomination and mice, shall come to an end together, declares the Lord.
