There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job, and that man was blameless and upright, one who feared God and turned away from evil. 
There were born to him seven sons and three daughters. 
He possessed 7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 500 yoke of oxen, and 500 female donkeys, and very many servants, so that this man was the greatest of all the people of the east. 
His sons used to go and hold a feast in the house of each one on his day, and they would send and invite their three sisters to eat and drink with them. 
And when the days of the feast had run their course, Job would send and consecrate them, and he would rise early in the morning and offer burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, “It may be that my children have sinned, and cursed God in their hearts.” Thus Job did continually.
Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came among them. 
The Lord said to Satan, “From where have you come?” Satan answered the Lord and said, “From going to and fro on the earth, and from walking up and down on it.” 
And the Lord said to Satan, “Have you considered my servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, who fears God and turns away from evil?” 
Then Satan answered the Lord and said, “Does Job fear God for no reason? 
Have you not put a hedge around him and his house and all that he has, on every side? You have blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land. 
But stretch out your hand and touch all that he has, and he will curse you to your face.” 
And the Lord said to Satan, “Behold, all that he has is in your hand. Only against him do not stretch out your hand.” So Satan went out from the presence of the Lord.
Now there was a day when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their oldest brother’s house, 
and there came a messenger to Job and said, “The oxen were plowing and the donkeys feeding beside them, 
and the Sabeans fell upon them and took them and struck down the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you.” 
While he was yet speaking, there came another and said, “The fire of God fell from heaven and burned up the sheep and the servants and consumed them, and I alone have escaped to tell you.” 
While he was yet speaking, there came another and said, “The Chaldeans formed three groups and made a raid on the camels and took them and struck down the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you.” 
While he was yet speaking, there came another and said, “Your sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their oldest brother’s house, 
and behold, a great wind came across the wilderness and struck the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young people, and they are dead, and I alone have escaped to tell you.”
Then Job arose and tore his robe and shaved his head and fell on the ground and worshiped. 
And he said, “Naked I came from my mother’s womb, and naked shall I return. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord.”
 In all this Job did not sin or charge God with wrong.
Again there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came among them to present himself before the Lord. 
And the Lord said to Satan, “From where have you come?” Satan answered the Lord and said, “From going to and fro on the earth, and from walking up and down on it.” 
And the Lord said to Satan, “Have you considered my servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, who fears God and turns away from evil? He still holds fast his integrity, although you incited me against him to destroy him without reason.” 
Then Satan answered the Lord and said, “Skin for skin! All that a man has he will give for his life. 
But stretch out your hand and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse you to your face.” 
And the Lord said to Satan, “Behold, he is in your hand; only spare his life.”
So Satan went out from the presence of the Lord and struck Job with loathsome sores from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head. 
And he took a piece of broken pottery with which to scrape himself while he sat in the ashes.
Then his wife said to him, “Do you still hold fast your integrity? Curse God and die.” 
But he said to her, “You speak as one of the foolish women would speak. Shall we receive good from God, and shall we not receive evil?” In all this Job did not sin with his lips.
Now when Job’s three friends heard of all this evil that had come upon him, they came each from his own place, Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite. They made an appointment together to come to show him sympathy and comfort him. 
And when they saw him from a distance, they did not recognize him. And they raised their voices and wept, and they tore their robes and sprinkled dust on their heads toward heaven. 
And they sat with him on the ground seven days and seven nights, and no one spoke a word to him, for they saw that his suffering was very great.
After this Job opened his mouth and cursed the day of his birth. 
And Job said:
 “Let the day perish on which I was born,
Let that day be darkness!
Let gloom and deep darkness claim it.
That night—let thick darkness seize it!
Behold, let that night be barren;
Let those curse it who curse the day,
Let the stars of its dawn be dark;
because it did not shut the doors of my mother’s womb,
“Why did I not die at birth,
Why did the knees receive me?
For then I would have lain down and been quiet;
with kings and counselors of the earth
or with princes who had gold,
Or why was I not as a hidden stillborn child,
There the wicked cease from troubling,
There the prisoners are at ease together;
The small and the great are there,
“Why is light given to him who is in misery,
who long for death, but it comes not,
who rejoice exceedingly
Why is light given to a man whose way is hidden,
For my sighing comes instead of my bread,
 For the thing that I fear comes upon me,
I am not at ease, nor am I quiet;
Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said:
“If one ventures a word with you, will you be impatient?
Behold, you have instructed many,
Your words have upheld him who was stumbling,
But now it has come to you, and you are impatient;
 Is not your fear of God your confidence,
“Remember: who that was innocent ever perished?
As I have seen, those who plow iniquity
By the breath of God they perish,
The roar of the lion, the voice of the fierce lion,
The strong lion perishes for lack of prey,
“Now a word was brought to me stealthily;
Amid thoughts from visions of the night,
dread came upon me, and trembling,
A spirit glided past my face;
It stood still,
 ‘Can mortal man be in the right before God?
Even in his servants he puts no trust,
how much more those who dwell in houses of clay,
Between morning and evening they are beaten to pieces;
Is not their tent-cord plucked up within them,
“Call now; is there anyone who will answer you?
Surely vexation kills the fool,
 I have seen the fool taking root,
His children are far from safety;
The hungry eat his harvest,
For affliction does not come from the dust,
but man is born to trouble
“As for me, I would seek God,
who does great things and unsearchable,
he gives rain on the earth
he sets on high those who are lowly,
He frustrates the devices of the crafty,
He catches the wise in their own craftiness,
They meet with darkness in the daytime
But he saves the needy from the sword of their mouth
So the poor have hope,
“Behold, blessed is the one whom God reproves;
For he wounds, but he binds up;
He will deliver you from six troubles;
 In famine he will redeem you from death,
You shall be hidden from the lash of the tongue,
At destruction and famine you shall laugh,
For you shall be in league with the stones of the field,
You shall know that your tent is at peace,
You shall know also that your offspring shall be many,
You shall come to your grave in ripe old age,
Behold, this we have searched out; it is true.
Then Job answered and said:
“Oh that my vexation were weighed,
For then it would be heavier than the sand of the sea;
For the arrows of the Almighty are in me;
Does the wild donkey bray when he has grass,
Can that which is tasteless be eaten without salt,
My appetite refuses to touch them;
“Oh that I might have my request,
that it would please God to crush me,
This would be my comfort;
What is my strength, that I should wait?
Is my strength the strength of stones, or is my flesh bronze?
Have I any help in me,
“He who withholds kindness from a friend
My brothers are treacherous as a torrent-bed,
which are dark with ice,
When they melt, they disappear;
The caravans turn aside from their course;
The caravans of Tema look,
They are ashamed because they were confident;
For you have now become nothing;
Have I said, ‘Make me a gift’?
Or, ‘Deliver me from the adversary’s hand’?
“Teach me, and I will be silent;
How forceful are upright words!
Do you think that you can reprove words,
You would even cast lots over the fatherless,
“But now, be pleased to look at me,
 Please turn; let no injustice be done.
Is there any injustice on my tongue?
“Has not man a hard service on earth,
Like a slave who longs for the shadow,
so I am allotted months of emptiness,
 When I lie down I say, ‘When shall I arise?’
My flesh is clothed with worms and dirt;
My days are swifter than a weaver’s shuttle
“Remember that my life is a breath;
 The eye of him who sees me will behold me no more;
As the cloud fades and vanishes,
he returns no more to his house,
“Therefore I will not restrain my mouth;
Am I the sea, or a sea monster,
 When I say, ‘My bed will comfort me,
then you scare me with dreams
so that I would choose strangling
I loathe my life; I would not live forever.
 What is man, that you make so much of him,
 visit him every morning
How long will you not look away from me,
If I sin, what do I do to you, you watcher of mankind?
Why do you not pardon my transgression
Then Bildad the Shuhite answered and said:
“How long will you say these things,
 Does God pervert justice?
If your children have sinned against him,
If you will seek God
if you are pure and upright,
And though your beginning was small,
“For inquire, please, of bygone ages,
For we are but of yesterday and know nothing,
Will they not teach you and tell you
“Can papyrus grow where there is no marsh?
While yet in flower and not cut down,
Such are the paths of all who forget God;
His confidence is severed,
He leans against his house, but it does not stand;
He is a lush plant before the sun,
His roots entwine the stone heap;
If he is destroyed from his place,
Behold, this is the joy of his way,
“Behold, God will not reject a blameless man,
He will yet fill your mouth with laughter,
Those who hate you will be clothed with shame,
Then Job answered and said:
“Truly I know that it is so:
If one wished to contend with him,
He is wise in heart and mighty in strength
he who removes mountains, and they know it not,
who shakes the earth out of its place,
who commands the sun, and it does not rise;
who alone stretched out the heavens
who made the Bear and Orion,
who does great things beyond searching out,
Behold, he passes by me, and I see him not;
Behold, he snatches away; who can turn him back?
“God will not turn back his anger;
 How then can I answer him,
 Though I am in the right, I cannot answer him;
If I summoned him and he answered me,
For he crushes me with a tempest
he will not let me get my breath,
If it is a contest of strength, behold, he is mighty!
Though I am in the right, my own mouth would condemn me;
I am blameless; I regard not myself;
It is all one; therefore I say,
When disaster brings sudden death,
 The earth is given into the hand of the wicked;
“My days are swifter than a runner;
They go by like skiffs of reed,
If I say, ‘I will forget my complaint,
I become afraid of all my suffering,
I shall be condemned;
If I wash myself with snow
yet you will plunge me into a pit,
For he is not a man, as I am, that I might answer him,
 There is no arbiter between us,
 Let him take his rod away from me,
Then I would speak without fear of him,
“I loathe my life;
I will say to God, Do not condemn me;
 Does it seem good to you to oppress,
Have you eyes of flesh?
Are your days as the days of man,
that you seek out my iniquity
although you know that I am not guilty,
 Your hands fashioned and made me,
Remember that you have made me like clay;
Did you not pour me out like milk
You clothed me with skin and flesh,
You have granted me life and steadfast love,
Yet these things you hid in your heart;
If I sin, you watch me
 If I am guilty, woe to me!
And were my head lifted up, you would hunt me like a lion
You renew your witnesses against me
 “Why did you bring me out from the womb?
 and were as though I had not been,
 Are not my days few?
before I go—and I shall not return—
the land of gloom like thick darkness,
Then Zophar the Naamathite answered and said:
“Should a multitude of words go unanswered,
Should your babble silence men,
For you say, ‘My doctrine is pure,
But oh, that God would speak
and that he would tell you the secrets of wisdom!
 “Can you find out the deep things of God?
It is higher than heaven—what can you do?
Its measure is longer than the earth
If he passes through and imprisons
For he knows worthless men;
But a stupid man will get understanding
“If you prepare your heart,
If iniquity is in your hand, put it far away,
Surely then you will lift up your face without blemish;
You will forget your misery;
And your life will be brighter than the noonday;
And you will feel secure, because there is hope;
You will lie down, and none will make you afraid;
But the eyes of the wicked will fail;
Then Job answered and said:
“No doubt you are the people,
But I have understanding as well as you;
I am a laughingstock to my friends;
In the thought of one who is at ease there is contempt for misfortune;
 The tents of robbers are at peace,
“But ask the beasts, and they will teach you;
or the bushes of the earth, and they will teach you;
Who among all these does not know
In his hand is the life of every living thing
Does not the ear test words
Wisdom is with the aged,
 “With God are wisdom and might;
If he tears down, none can rebuild;
If he withholds the waters, they dry up;
With him are strength and sound wisdom;
He leads counselors away stripped,
He looses the bonds of kings
He leads priests away stripped
He deprives of speech those who are trusted
He pours contempt on princes
He uncovers the deeps out of darkness
He makes nations great, and he destroys them;
He takes away understanding from the chiefs of the people of the earth
They grope in the dark without light,
“Behold, my eye has seen all this,
 What you know, I also know;
 But I would speak to the Almighty,
As for you, you whitewash with lies;
Oh that you would keep silent,
Hear now my argument
Will you speak falsely for God
Will you show partiality toward him?
Will it be well with you when he searches you out?
He will surely rebuke you
Will not his majesty terrify you,
Your maxims are proverbs of ashes;
“Let me have silence, and I will speak,
Why should I take my flesh in my teeth
 Though he slay me, I will hope in him;
This will be my salvation,
 Keep listening to my words,
Behold, I have prepared my case;
 Who is there who will contend with me?
Only grant me two things,
 withdraw your hand far from me,
 Then call, and I will answer;
How many are my iniquities and my sins?
Why do you hide your face
Will you frighten a driven leaf
For you write bitter things against me
You put my feet in the stocks
Man wastes away like a rotten thing,
“Man who is born of a woman
He comes out like a flower and withers;
And do you open your eyes on such a one
Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean?
Since his days are determined,
 look away from him and leave him alone,
“For there is hope for a tree,
Though its root grow old in the earth,
yet at the scent of water it will bud
But a man dies and is laid low;
 As waters fail from a lake
so a man lies down and rises not again;
Oh that you would hide me in Sheol,
If a man dies, shall he live again?
You would call, and I would answer you;
For then you would number my steps;
my transgression would be sealed up in a bag,
“But the mountain falls and crumbles away,
the waters wear away the stones;
You prevail forever against him, and he passes;
His sons come to honor, and he does not know it;
He feels only the pain of his own body,
Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said:
“Should a wise man answer with windy knowledge,
Should he argue in unprofitable talk,
But you are doing away with the fear of God
For your iniquity teaches your mouth,
Your own mouth condemns you, and not I;
 “Are you the first man who was born?
Have you listened in the council of God?
 What do you know that we do not know?
 Both the gray-haired and the aged are among us,
Are the comforts of God too small for you,
Why does your heart carry you away,
that you turn your spirit against God
 What is man, that he can be pure?
Behold, God puts no trust in his holy ones,
 how much less one who is abominable and corrupt,
“I will show you; hear me,
(what wise men have told,
to whom alone the land was given,
The wicked man writhes in pain all his days,
 Dreadful sounds are in his ears;
He does not believe that he will return out of darkness,
He wanders abroad for bread, saying, ‘Where is it?’
distress and anguish terrify him;
Because he has stretched out his hand against God
 running stubbornly against him
because he has covered his face with his fat
and has lived in desolate cities,
he will not be rich, and his wealth will not endure,
he will not depart from darkness;
Let him not trust in emptiness, deceiving himself,
It will be paid in full before his time,
He will shake off his unripe grape like the vine,
For the company of the godless is barren,
They conceive trouble and give birth to evil,
Then Job answered and said:
“I have heard many such things;
Shall windy words have an end?
I also could speak as you do,
I could strengthen you with my mouth,
“If I speak, my pain is not assuaged,
Surely now God has worn me out;
And he has shriveled me up,
He has torn me in his wrath and hated me;
Men have gaped at me with their mouth;
God gives me up to the ungodly
I was at ease, and he broke me apart;
his archers surround me.
He breaks me with breach upon breach;
I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin
My face is red with weeping,
although there is no violence in my hands,
“O earth, cover not my blood,
Even now, behold, my witness is in heaven,
My friends scorn me;
that he would argue the case of a man with God,
For when a few years have come
“My spirit is broken; my days are extinct;
Surely there are mockers about me,
“Lay down a pledge for me with you;
Since you have closed their hearts to understanding,
He who informs against his friends to get a share of their property—
“He has made me a byword of the peoples,
My eye has grown dim from vexation,
The upright are appalled at this,
Yet the righteous holds to his way,
But you, come on again, all of you,
My days are past; my plans are broken off,
They make night into day:
If I hope for Sheol as my house,
if I say to the pit, ‘You are my father,’
where then is my hope?
Will it go down to the bars of Sheol?
Then Bildad the Shuhite answered and said:
“How long will you hunt for words?
Why are we counted as cattle?
You who tear yourself in your anger,
“Indeed, the light of the wicked is put out,
The light is dark in his tent,
His strong steps are shortened,
For he is cast into a net by his own feet,
 A trap seizes him by the heel;
A rope is hidden for him in the ground,
 Terrors frighten him on every side,
His strength is famished,
It consumes the parts of his skin;
He is torn from the tent in which he trusted
In his tent dwells that which is none of his;
His roots dry up beneath,
His memory perishes from the earth,
 He is thrust from light into darkness,
He has no posterity or progeny among his people,
They of the west are appalled at his day,
Surely such are the dwellings of the unrighteous,
Then Job answered and said:
“How long will you torment me
These ten times you have cast reproach upon me;
And even if it be true that I have erred,
If indeed you magnify yourselves against me
know then that God has put me in the wrong
Behold, I cry out, ‘Violence!’ but I am not answered;
He has walled up my way, so that I cannot pass,
He has stripped from me my glory
He breaks me down on every side, and I am gone,
He has kindled his wrath against me
His troops come on together;
“He has put my brothers far from me,
My relatives have failed me,
The guests in my house and my maidservants count me as a stranger;
I call to my servant, but he gives me no answer;
My breath is strange to my wife,
Even young children despise me;
All my intimate friends abhor me,
My bones stick to my skin and to my flesh,
Have mercy on me, have mercy on me, O you my friends,
Why do you, like God, pursue me?
“Oh that my words were written!
Oh that with an iron pen and lead
For I know that my Redeemer lives,
And after my skin has been thus destroyed,
whom I shall see for myself,
If you say, ‘How we will pursue him!’
be afraid of the sword,
Then Zophar the Naamathite answered and said:
“Therefore my thoughts answer me,
I hear censure that insults me,
Do you not know this from of old,
 that the exulting of the wicked is short,
 Though his height mount up to the heavens,
he will perish forever like his own dung;
He will fly away like a dream and not be found;
 The eye that saw him will see him no more,
His children will seek the favor of the poor,
His bones are full of his youthful vigor,
“Though evil is sweet in his mouth,
though he is loath to let it go
yet his food is turned in his stomach;
He swallows down riches and vomits them up again;
He will suck the poison of cobras;
He will not look upon the rivers,
He will give back the fruit of his toil
For he has crushed and abandoned the poor;
“Because he knew no contentment in his belly,
There was nothing left after he had eaten;
In the fullness of his sufficiency he will be in distress;
To fill his belly to the full,
 He will flee from an iron weapon;
It is drawn forth and comes out of his body;
Utter darkness is laid up for his treasures;
 The heavens will reveal his iniquity,
The possessions of his house will be carried away,
 This is the wicked man’s portion from God,
Then Job answered and said:
 “Keep listening to my words,
Bear with me, and I will speak,
As for me, is my complaint against man?
Look at me and be appalled,
When I remember, I am dismayed,
 Why do the wicked live,
Their offspring are established in their presence,
Their houses are safe from fear,
Their bull breeds without fail;
They send out their little boys like a flock,
They sing to the tambourine and the lyre
They spend their days in prosperity,
They say to God, ‘Depart from us!
 What is the Almighty, that we should serve him?
Behold, is not their prosperity in their hand?
“How often is it that the lamp of the wicked is put out?
That they are like straw before the wind,
You say, ‘God stores up their iniquity for their children.’
Let their own eyes see their destruction,
For what do they care for their houses after them,
 Will any teach God knowledge,
One dies in his full vigor,
his pails full of milk
Another dies in bitterness of soul,
They lie down alike in the dust,
“Behold, I know your thoughts
For you say, ‘Where is the house of the prince?
Have you not asked those who travel the roads,
that the evil man is spared in the day of calamity,
Who declares his way to his face,
When he is carried to the grave,
 The clods of the valley are sweet to him;
How then will you comfort me with empty nothings?
Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said:
 “Can a man be profitable to God?
Is it any pleasure to the Almighty if you are in the right,
Is it for your fear of him that he reproves you
Is not your evil abundant?
For you have exacted pledges of your brothers for nothing
You have given no water to the weary to drink,
 The man with power possessed the land,
You have sent widows away empty,
Therefore snares are all around you,
or darkness, so that you cannot see,
“Is not God high in the heavens?
But you say, ‘What does God know?
 Thick clouds veil him, so that he does not see,
Will you keep to the old way
They were snatched away before their time;
They said to God, ‘Depart from us,’
Yet he filled their houses with good things—
 The righteous see it and are glad;
saying, ‘Surely our adversaries are cut off,
 “Agree with God, and be at peace;
Receive instruction from his mouth,
If you return to the Almighty you will be built up;
if you lay gold in the dust,
then the Almighty will be your gold
For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty
You will make your prayer to him, and he will hear you,
You will decide on a matter, and it will be established for you,
For when they are humbled you say, ‘It is because of pride’;
He delivers even the one who is not innocent,
Then Job answered and said:
“Today also my complaint is bitter;
Oh, that I knew where I might find him,
I would lay my case before him
I would know what he would answer me
Would he contend with me in the greatness of his power?
There an upright man could argue with him,
“Behold, I go forward, but he is not there,
on the left hand when he is working, I do not behold him;
But he knows the way that I take;
My foot has held fast to his steps;
I have not departed from the commandment of his lips;
But he is unchangeable, and who can turn him back?
For he will complete what he appoints for me,
Therefore I am terrified at his presence;
God has made my heart faint;
yet I am not silenced because of the darkness,
“Why are not times of judgment kept by the Almighty,
Some move landmarks;
They drive away the donkey of the fatherless;
They thrust the poor off the road;
Behold, like wild donkeys in the desert
They gather their fodder in the field,
They lie all night naked, without clothing,
They are wet with the rain of the mountains
(There are those who snatch the fatherless child from the breast,
They go about naked, without clothing;
among the olive rows of the wicked they make oil;
From out of the city the dying groan,
“There are those who rebel against the light,
The murderer rises before it is light,
The eye of the adulterer also waits for the twilight,
In the dark they dig through houses;
For deep darkness is morning to all of them;
“You say, ‘Swift are they on the face of the waters;
Drought and heat snatch away the snow waters;
The womb forgets them;
“They wrong the barren, childless woman,
Yet God prolongs the life of the mighty by his power;
He gives them security, and they are supported,
They are exalted a little while, and then are gone;
If it is not so, who will prove me a liar
Then Bildad the Shuhite answered and said:
“Dominion and fear are with God;
Is there any number to his armies?
How then can man be in the right before God?
Behold, even the moon is not bright,
 how much less man, who is a maggot,
Then Job answered and said:
“How you have helped him who has no power!
How you have counseled him who has no wisdom,
With whose help have you uttered words,
The dead tremble
Sheol is naked before God,
He stretches out the north over the void
He binds up the waters in his thick clouds,
He covers the face of the full moon
He has inscribed a circle on the face of the waters
 The pillars of heaven tremble
By his power he stilled the sea;
 By his wind the heavens were made fair;
Behold, these are but the outskirts of his ways,
And Job again took up his discourse, and said:
“As God lives, who has taken away my right,
as long as my breath is in me,
my lips will not speak falsehood,
Far be it from me to say that you are right;
I hold fast my righteousness and will not let it go;
“Let my enemy be as the wicked,
 For what is the hope of the godless when God cuts him off,
 Will God hear his cry
Will he take delight in the Almighty?
I will teach you concerning the hand of God;
Behold, all of you have seen it yourselves;
 “This is the portion of a wicked man with God,
If his children are multiplied, it is for the sword,
Those who survive him the pestilence buries,
Though he heap up silver like dust,
he may pile it up, but the righteous will wear it,
He builds his house like a moth’s,
He goes to bed rich, but will do so no more;
 Terrors overtake him like a flood;
 The east wind lifts him up and he is gone;
It hurls at him without pity;
It claps its hands at him
“Surely there is a mine for silver,
Iron is taken out of the earth,
Man puts an end to darkness
He opens shafts in a valley away from where anyone lives;
As for the earth, out of it comes bread,
Its stones are the place of sapphires,
“That path no bird of prey knows,
 The proud beasts have not trodden it;
“Man puts his hand to the flinty rock
He cuts out channels in the rocks,
He dams up the streams so that they do not trickle,
 “But where shall wisdom be found?
Man does not know its worth,
 The deep says, ‘It is not in me,’
It cannot be bought for gold,
It cannot be valued in the gold of Ophir,
Gold and glass cannot equal it,
No mention shall be made of coral or of crystal;
 The topaz of Ethiopia cannot equal it,
“From where, then, does wisdom come?
It is hidden from the eyes of all living
 Abaddon and Death say,
 “God understands the way to it,
For he looks to the ends of the earth
When he gave to the wind its weight
when he made a decree for the rain
then he saw it and declared it;
And he said to man,
And Job again took up his discourse, and said:
“Oh, that I were as in the months of old,
when his lamp shone upon my head,
as I was in my prime,
when the Almighty was yet with me,
when my steps were washed with butter,
When I went out to the gate of the city,
the young men saw me and withdrew,
the princes refrained from talking
the voice of the nobles was hushed,
When the ear heard, it called me blessed,
because I delivered the poor who cried for help,
 The blessing of him who was about to perish came upon me,
I put on righteousness, and it clothed me;
I was eyes to the blind
I was a father to the needy,
I broke the fangs of the unrighteous
 Then I thought, ‘I shall die in my nest,
my roots spread out to the waters,
my glory fresh with me,
“Men listened to me and waited
After I spoke they did not speak again,
They waited for me as for the rain,
I smiled on them when they had no confidence,
I chose their way and sat as chief,
“But now they laugh at me,
What could I gain from the strength of their hands,
Through want and hard hunger
they pick saltwort and the leaves of bushes,
 They are driven out from human company;
In the gullies of the torrents they must dwell,
Among the bushes they bray;
A senseless, a nameless brood,
“And now I have become their song;
They abhor me; they keep aloof from me;
Because God has loosed my cord and humbled me,
On my right hand the rabble rise;
They break up my path;
As through a wide breach they come;
 Terrors are turned upon me;
“And now my soul is poured out within me;
 The night racks my bones,
With great force my garment is disfigured;
God has cast me into the mire,
I cry to you for help and you do not answer me;
You have turned cruel to me;
 You lift me up on the wind; you make me ride on it,
 For I know that you will bring me to death
“Yet does not one in a heap of ruins stretch out his hand,
Did not I weep for him whose day was hard?
But when I hoped for good, evil came,
My inward parts are in turmoil and never still;
I go about darkened, but not by the sun;
I am a brother of jackals
My skin turns black and falls from me,
My lyre is turned to mourning,
“I have made a covenant with my eyes;
What would be my portion from God above
Is not calamity for the unrighteous,
 Does not he see my ways
“If I have walked with falsehood
(Let me be weighed in a just balance,
if my step has turned aside from the way
then let me sow, and another eat,
“If my heart has been enticed toward a woman,
then let my wife grind for another,
For that would be a heinous crime;
for that would be a fire that consumes as far as Abaddon,
“If I have rejected the cause of my manservant or my maidservant,
what then shall I do when God rises up?
Did not he who made me in the womb make him?
“If I have withheld anything that the poor desired,
or have eaten my morsel alone,
(for from my youth the fatherless grew up with me as with a father,
if I have seen anyone perish for lack of clothing,
if his body has not blessed me,
if I have raised my hand against the fatherless,
then let my shoulder blade fall from my shoulder,
For I was in terror of calamity from God,
 “If I have made gold my trust
if I have rejoiced because my wealth was abundant
 if I have looked at the sun when it shone,
and my heart has been secretly enticed,
this also would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges,
“If I have rejoiced at the ruin of him who hated me,
(I have not let my mouth sin
if the men of my tent have not said,
(the sojourner has not lodged in the street;
if I have concealed my transgressions as others do
because I stood in great fear of the multitude,
Oh, that I had one to hear me!
Surely I would carry it on my shoulder;
I would give him an account of all my steps;
“If my land has cried out against me
 if I have eaten its yield without payment
let thorns grow instead of wheat,
So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes. 
Then Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the family of Ram, burned with anger. He burned with anger at Job because he justified himself rather than God. 
He burned with anger also at Job’s three friends because they had found no answer, although they had declared Job to be in the wrong. 
Now Elihu had waited to speak to Job because they were older than he. 
And when Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, he burned with anger.
And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said:
I said, ‘Let days speak,
But it is the spirit in man,
 It is not the old who are wise,
Therefore I say, ‘Listen to me;
“Behold, I waited for your words,
I gave you my attention,
Beware lest you say, ‘We have found wisdom;
He has not directed his words against me,
“They are dismayed; they answer no more;
And shall I wait, because they do not speak,
I also will answer with my share;
For I am full of words;
Behold, my belly is like wine that has no vent;
 I must speak, that I may find relief;
I will not show partiality to any man
For I do not know how to flatter,
“But now, hear my speech, O Job,
Behold, I open my mouth;
My words declare the uprightness of my heart,
 The Spirit of God has made me,
 Answer me, if you can;
Behold, I am toward God as you are;
Behold, no fear of me need terrify you;
“Surely you have spoken in my ears,
You say, ‘I am pure, without transgression;
Behold, he finds occasions against me,
he puts my feet in the stocks
“Behold, in this you are not right. I will answer you,
Why do you contend against him,
For God speaks in one way,
In a dream, in a vision of the night,
then he opens the ears of men
that he may turn man aside from his deed
he keeps back his soul from the pit,
“Man is also rebuked with pain on his bed
so that his life loathes bread,
His flesh is so wasted away that it cannot be seen,
His soul draws near the pit,
If there be for him an angel,
and he is merciful to him, and says,
let his flesh become fresh with youth;
then man prays to God, and he accepts him;
He sings before men and says:
He has redeemed my soul from going down into the pit,
“Behold, God does all these things,
to bring back his soul from the pit,
Pay attention, O Job, listen to me;
If you have any words, answer me;
If not, listen to me;
Then Elihu answered and said:
“Hear my words, you wise men,
for the ear tests words
Let us choose what is right;
For Job has said, ‘I am in the right,
in spite of my right I am counted a liar;
What man is like Job,
who travels in company with evildoers
For he has said, ‘It profits a man nothing
“Therefore, hear me, you men of understanding:
For according to the work of a man he will repay him,
Of a truth, God will not do wickedly,
Who gave him charge over the earth,
If he should set his heart to it
all flesh would perish together,
“If you have understanding, hear this;
 Shall one who hates justice govern?
who says to a king, ‘Worthless one,’
who shows no partiality to princes,
In a moment they die;
“For his eyes are on the ways of a man,
There is no gloom or deep darkness
For God has no need to consider a man further,
He shatters the mighty without investigation
Thus, knowing their works,
He strikes them for their wickedness
because they turned aside from following him
so that they caused the cry of the poor to come to him,
When he is quiet, who can condemn?
that a godless man should not reign,
“For has anyone said to God,
 teach me what I do not see;
Will he then make repayment to suit you,
Men of understanding will say to me,
‘Job speaks without knowledge;
Would that Job were tried to the end,
For he adds rebellion to his sin;
And Elihu answered and said:
“Do you think this to be just?
that you ask, ‘What advantage have I?
I will answer you
 Look at the heavens, and see;
If you have sinned, what do you accomplish against him?
 If you are righteous, what do you give to him?
Your wickedness concerns a man like yourself,
“Because of the multitude of oppressions people cry out;
But none says, ‘Where is God my Maker,
who teaches us more than the beasts of the earth
There they cry out, but he does not answer,
Surely God does not hear an empty cry,
How much less when you say that you do not see him,
And now, because his anger does not punish,
Job opens his mouth in empty talk;
And Elihu continued, and said:
“Bear with me a little, and I will show you,
I will get my knowledge from afar
For truly my words are not false;
“Behold, God is mighty, and does not despise any;
He does not keep the wicked alive,
He does not withdraw his eyes from the righteous,
And if they are bound in chains
then he declares to them their work
He opens their ears to instruction
 If they listen and serve him,
But if they do not listen, they perish by the sword
“The godless in heart cherish anger;
They die in youth,
He delivers the afflicted by their affliction
He also allured you out of distress
“But you are full of the judgment on the wicked;
Beware lest wrath entice you into scoffing,
Will your cry for help avail to keep you from distress,
Do not long for the night,
Take care; do not turn to iniquity,
Behold, God is exalted in his power;
Who has prescribed for him his way,
“Remember to extol his work,
All mankind has looked on it;
Behold, God is great, and we know him not;
For he draws up the drops of water;
which the skies pour down
Can anyone understand the spreading of the clouds,
Behold, he scatters his lightning about him
For by these he judges peoples;
He covers his hands with the lightning
Its crashing declares his presence;
“At this also my heart trembles
Keep listening to the thunder of his voice
Under the whole heaven he lets it go,
After it his voice roars;
God thunders wondrously with his voice;
For to the snow he says, ‘Fall on the earth,’
He seals up the hand of every man,
Then the beasts go into their lairs,
From its chamber comes the whirlwind,
By the breath of God ice is given,
He loads the thick cloud with moisture;
They turn around and around by his guidance,
Whether for correction or for his land
“Hear this, O Job;
Do you know how God lays his command upon them
Do you know the balancings of the clouds,
you whose garments are hot
Can you, like him, spread out the skies,
Teach us what we shall say to him;
Shall it be told him that I would speak?
“And now no one looks on the light
Out of the north comes golden splendor;
The Almighty—we cannot find him;
Therefore men fear him;
Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind and said:
“Who is this that darkens counsel by words without knowledge?
 Dress for action like a man;
“Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth?
Who determined its measurements—surely you know!
On what were its bases sunk,
when the morning stars sang together
“Or who shut in the sea with doors
when I made clouds its garment
and prescribed limits for it
and said, ‘Thus far shall you come, and no farther,
“Have you commanded the morning since your days began,
that it might take hold of the skirts of the earth,
It is changed like clay under the seal,
From the wicked their light is withheld,
“Have you entered into the springs of the sea,
Have the gates of death been revealed to you,
Have you comprehended the expanse of the earth?
“Where is the way to the dwelling of light,
that you may take it to its territory
You know, for you were born then,
“Have you entered the storehouses of the snow,
which I have reserved for the time of trouble,
What is the way to the place where the light is distributed,
“Who has cleft a channel for the torrents of rain
to bring rain on a land where no man is,
to satisfy the waste and desolate land,
“Has the rain a father,
From whose womb did the ice come forth,
The waters become hard like stone,
“Can you bind the chains of the Pleiades
Can you lead forth the Mazzaroth in their season,
Do you know the ordinances of the heavens?
“Can you lift up your voice to the clouds,
Can you send forth lightnings, that they may go
Who has put wisdom in the inward parts
Who can number the clouds by wisdom?
when the dust runs into a mass
“Can you hunt the prey for the lion,
when they crouch in their dens
Who provides for the raven its prey,
“Do you know when the mountain goats give birth?
Can you number the months that they fulfill,
when they crouch, bring forth their offspring,
Their young ones become strong; they grow up in the open;
“Who has let the wild donkey go free?
to whom I have given the arid plain for his home
He scorns the tumult of the city;
He ranges the mountains as his pasture,
“Is the wild ox willing to serve you?
Can you bind him in the furrow with ropes,
Will you depend on him because his strength is great,
Do you have faith in him that he will return your grain
“The wings of the ostrich wave proudly,
For she leaves her eggs to the earth
forgetting that a foot may crush them
She deals cruelly with her young, as if they were not hers;
because God has made her forget wisdom
When she rouses herself to flee,
“Do you give the horse his might?
Do you make him leap like the locust?
He paws in the valley and exults in his strength;
He laughs at fear and is not dismayed;
Upon him rattle the quiver,
With fierceness and rage he swallows the ground;
When the trumpet sounds, he says ‘Aha!’
“Is it by your understanding that the hawk soars
Is it at your command that the eagle mounts up
On the rock he dwells and makes his home,
From there he spies out the prey;
His young ones suck up blood,
And the Lord said to Job:
“Shall a faultfinder contend with the Almighty?
Then Job answered the Lord and said:
“Behold, I am of small account; what shall I answer you?
I have spoken once, and I will not answer;
Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind and said:
 “Dress for action like a man;
Will you even put me in the wrong?
Have you an arm like God,
“Adorn yourself with majesty and dignity;
Pour out the overflowings of your anger,
Look on everyone who is proud and bring him low
 Hide them all in the dust together;
Then will I also acknowledge to you
“Behold, Behemoth,
Behold, his strength in his loins,
He makes his tail stiff like a cedar;
His bones are tubes of bronze,
“He is the first of the works of God;
For the mountains yield food for him
Under the lotus plants he lies,
For his shade the lotus trees cover him;
Behold, if the river is turbulent he is not frightened;
Can one take him by his eyes,
Empty verse
  “Can you draw out Leviathan with a fishhook
Can you put a rope in his nose
Will he make many pleas to you?
Will he make a covenant with you
Will you play with him as with a bird,
Will traders bargain over him?
Can you fill his skin with harpoons
Lay your hands on him;
  Behold, the hope of a man is false;
No one is so fierce that he dares to stir him up.
 Who has first given to me, that I should repay him?
“I will not keep silence concerning his limbs,
Who can strip off his outer garment?
Who can open the doors of his face?
His back is made of rows of shields,
One is so near to another
They are joined one to another;
His sneezings flash forth light,
Out of his mouth go flaming torches;
Out of his nostrils comes forth smoke,
His breath kindles coals,
In his neck abides strength,
The folds of his flesh stick together,
His heart is hard as a stone,
When he raises himself up, the mighty are afraid;
Then Job answered the Lord and said:
“I know that you can do all things,
 ‘Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge?’
‘Hear, and I will speak;
I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear,
therefore I despise myself,
